Shipment & Transport-Sea, Air, Rail, Road, Pipeline The mode of transportation is an important consideration when planning the shipment process. Besides the costs, the urgency of the shipment, the value of the goods being shipped as well as the size and weight of the goods need to be evaluated when determining the form of transportation. Seaborne trade accounts for about 90% of the global trade, and as per UNCTAD, 1687 million tons (2015 estimate) were carried in around 177.6 million containers (2015 estimate) covering 998 billion ton-miles (2016 estimate). Because of size or volume, there are several types of cargoes that cannot be or is economically unviable to move by other modes of transport than the sea. Ocean freight is a less expensive method of shipping goods, but the drawback is a longer transit time. Another benefit for ocean freight is while size and weight may be an issue for air; it is not for ocean freight. Ocean freight is used quite extensively for the movement of bulk commodities such as agri-products (wheat, maize, soya, etc.), coal, iron ore or for wet bulk products such as crude oil and petroleum. Also, larger, odd-shaped items including engines and propellers may move via this mode as well, depending on how sensitive the delivery time is. Ocean freight is also a preferred mode of transport for the movement of high volume and heavy cargo such as minerals, metals, ores, steel coils, etc. which would be impossible to move by air freight. Additionally, businesses are placing more of an emphasis on the environmental impact on shipping. An air freight service emits a higher amount of polluting gases with less space capacity compared to sea freight services which are considered a much greener transportation mode with a higher carrying capacity. Key benefits of ocean freight include - Suitable for wide range of products with long lead times - Large volumes. A single, ultra-large container ship can carry +/-20,000 twenty-foot equivalent units (TEU) - Most environmental friendly among all modes of transport - Liner shipping is the most efficient mode of transport for goods - Extensive coverage around the world - Multiple carrier options for the shippers Over the next 15 years, as the world GDP grows, there will be a demand for higher value goods. As per Boeing’s 2016 – 2017 world air cargo forecast, there will be a proportionate growth in the value per ton of total traded goods around the world. To meet the demand for growth, world air cargo traffic is forecasted to grow an average 4.2 percent per year. Air freight is a critical mode of transport. It serves markets and supply chains that demand speed. One of greatest examples goes back to 1997 when Apple began innovating on the nitty-gritty details of supply-chain management. Almost immediately upon Steve Jobs’ return. At the time, most computer manufacturers transported products by sea, a far cheaper option than air freight. Steve Jobs took advantage of the benefit of air freight and used an innovative strategy. He paid $50 million to buy up all the available holiday air freight space to ensure that the company’s new, translucent blue iMacs would be widely available during Christmas season giving them a massive competitive advantage over their rivals. – “It was an ‘Oh s—’ moment,” recalls former HP supply chain chief Mike Fawkes.” Other industries such as the automotive and retail industry also utilize air freight to achieve ‘just-in-time’ (JIT) inventory replenishment. JIT option allows stores, production lines to place order fulfillment based on demand as, and when required. It provides greater flexibility and reduces inventory and storage costs. Also, perishable goods such as foods, flowers, and some pharmaceuticals also take advantage of shorter transit time. Another positive for air freight is that there’s less handling of cargo overall, so the likelihood of damage or theft is less likely when utilizing air. But air freight also has its own disadvantages such as being one of the most expensive due to the requirement of speed and the fuel that is used. It also has its size and weight limitations. Regulatory bodies limit what can and cannot be transported by air, and as such, oddly shaped or very large items may be more suitable for other modes of transport. Key benefits of air freight include - Quick transit - Less handling of cargo - Less documentation - Reliable arrival and departures - Enhanced level of security for your cargo Another mode of transport which is also considered a ‘green’ option is rail. Trains burn less fuel per ton-mile than road vehicles and a train, which can have as many than 100 wagons, only needs one driver. There are, however, some additional costs which are incurred in a rail journey: at each end of the rail transit, a road delivery will be needed, and there will be a lift cost to transfer the container between the train and the road vehicle. On average, longer journeys tend to be less expensive by rail, and shorter journeys are less costly by road. Where the point of cost neutrality comes is governed by many factors which are route and commodity specific, but in general, the point of cost neutrality can be expected to lie in the range of 130 to 150 miles. In 2015, the first freight train carrying ISO freight containers from China arrived in the Port of Rotterdam in 18 days as against the normal 44 odd days by the sea. This movement of containerized cargo by rail from China to logistics hubs in Europe such as in the Netherlands, UK is seen as a significant step in the development of trade between the two continents. It has encouraged multinationals such as Hewlett-Packard and Ricoh to use the route from Europe to China for their cargoes. The Manager of European Transport at Ricoh notes that if one can set up an effective planning, rail is a relatively quick mode of transport taking only 20 days to China. In addition, the move by rail also has some advantages such as all containers being transported to the location in one go, while being environmentally friendly as a train releases far less CO2 than a plane. Key benefits of rail freight include - Reliable transit times and schedules - Railroads are the most efficient form of land transportation. One train can haul the equivalent of over 400 trucks - Fast and cost-effective deliveries over long distances. Typically over 500 miles - Traditionally, rail has a strong safety record. - Helps in alleviating road congestion, thus lowering emissions Road freight is one of the most common of all modes of transportation. It is widely used in continents such as Europe, Africa, and North America. The single customs document process provides a seamless movement of goods even across various states and countries. Road freight provides several advantages over other modes of transportation such as - Quick and scheduled delivery - Local, over border, long or short haul deliveries even in rural areas - Flexible service - Saving in Packing Cost compared to other modes - Track and trace of cargo and truck - Complete door-to-door service and it is one of the more economical means of transport. However, truck transport is limited somewhat as to what it can carry by the size of the vehicles used and by size and weight restrictions. Another limitation is that it is affected by weather, road conditions and traffic. Pipeline transport is the long-distance transportation of a liquid or gas through a system of pipes—a pipeline—typically to a market area for consumption. The latest data from 2014 gives a total of slightly less than 2,175,000 miles (3,500,000 km) of pipeline in 120 countries of the world. The United States had 65%, Russia had 8%, and Canada had 3%, thus 75% of all pipeline were in these three countries. Pipeline and Gas Journal’s worldwide survey figures indicate that 118,623 miles (190,905 km) of pipelines are planned and under construction. Of these, 88,976 miles (143,193 km) represent projects in the planning and design phase; 29,647 miles (47,712 km) reflect pipelines in various stages of construction. Liquids and gases are transported in pipelines and any chemically stable substance can be sent through a pipeline. Pipelines exist for the transport of crude and refined petroleum, fuels – such as oil, natural gas and biofuels – and other fluids including sewage, slurry, water, beer, hot water or steam for shorter distances. Pipelines are useful for transporting water for drinking or irrigation over long distances when it needs to move over hills, or where canals or channels are poor choices due to considerations of evaporation, pollution, or environmental impact.
12. Definition — In this Part, unless the context otherwise requires, “the State” includes the Government and Parliament of India and the Government and the Legislature of each of the States and all local or other authorities within the territory of India or under the control of the Government of India…. Right to Equality 14. Equality before law — The State shall not deny to any person equality before the law or the equal protection of the laws within the territory of India. 15. Prohibition of discrimination on grounds of religion, race, caste, sex or place of birth — (1) The State shall not discriminate against any citizen on grounds only of religion, race, caste, sex, place of birth or any of them. (2) No citizen shall, on grounds only of religion, race, caste, sex, place of birth or any of them, be subject to any disability, liability, restriction or condition with regard to — (a) access to shops, public restaurants, hotels and places of public entertainment; or (b) the use of wells, tanks, bathing ghats, roads and places of public resort maintained wholly or partly out of State funds or dedicated to the use of the general public. (3) Nothing in this article shall prevent the State from making any special provision for women and children. (4) Nothing in this article or in clause (2) of Article 29 shall prevent the State from making any special provision for the advancement of any socially and educationally backward classes of citizens or for the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes. 16. Equality of opportunity in matters of public employment — (1) There shall be equality of opportunity for all citizens in matters relating to employment or appointment to any office under the State. (2) No citizen shall, on grounds only of religion, race, caste, sex, descent, place of birth, residence or any of them, be ineligible for, or discriminated against in respect or, any employment or office under the State…. 17. Abolition of Untouchability — “Untouchability” is abolished and its practice in any form is forbidden. The enforcement of any disability arising out of “Untouchability” shall be an offence punishable in accordance with law. 18. Abolition of titles — (1) No title, not being a military or academic distinction, shall be conferred by the State…. Right to Freedom 19. Protection of certain rights regarding freedom of speech, etc. — (1) All citizens shall have the right — (a) to freedom of speech and expression; (b) to assemble peaceably and without arms; (c) to form associations or unions; (d) to move freely throughout the territory of India; (e) to reside and settle in any part of the territory of India; and (f) [removed]; (g) to practice any profession, or to carry on any occupation, trade or business. …Nothing in sub-clause (a)… (b)… (c)… (d)… (e)… (g)… of Clause (1) shall affect the operation of any existing law, or prevent the State from making any law, in so far as such law imposes reasonable restrictions on the exercise of the right conferred by the said sub-clause in the interests of the sovereignty and integrity of India…. 20. Protection in respect of conviction for offenses — (1) No person shall be convicted of any offence except for violation of a law in force at the time of the commission of the act charged as an offence, nor be subjected to a penalty greater than that which might have been inflicted under the law in force at the time of the commission of the offence. (2) No person shall be prosecuted and punished for the same offence more than once. (3) No person accused of any offence shall be compelled to be a witness against himself. 21. Protection of life and personal liberty — No person shall be deprived of his life or personal liberty except according to procedure established by law. 22. Protection against arrest and detention in certain cases — (1) No person who is arrested shall be detained in custody without being informed, as soon as may be, of the grounds for such arrest nor shall he be denied the right to consult, and to be defended by, a legal practitioner of his choice. (2) Every person who is arrested and detained in custody shall be produced before the nearest magistrate within a period of twenty-four hours of such arrest excluding the time necessary for the journey from the place of arrest to the court of the magistrate and no such person shall be detained in custody beyond the said period without the authority of a magistrate. (3) Nothing in clauses (1) and (2) shall apply — (a) to any person who for the time being is an enemy alien; or (b) to any person who is arrested or detained under any law providing for preventive detention. (4) No law providing for preventive detention shall authorize the detention of a person for a longer period than three months unless — (a) an Advisory Board consisting of persons who are, or have been, or are qualified to be appointed as, Judges of a High Court has reported before the expiration of the said period of three months that there is in its opinion sufficient cause for such detention;… (5) When any person is detained in pursuance of an order made under any law providing for preventive detention, the authority making the order shall, as soon as may be, communicate to such person the grounds on which the order has been made and shall afford him the earliest opportunity of making a representation against the order. (6) Nothing in clause (5) shall require the authority making any such order as is referred to in that clause to disclose facts which such authority considers to be against the public interest to disclose…. Right Against Exploitation 23. Prohibition of traffic in human beings and forced labor — (1) Traffic in human beings and begar and other similar forms of forced labor are prohibited and any contravention of this provision shall be an offence punishable in accordance with law. (2) Nothing in this article shall prevent the State from imposing compulsory service for public purposes…. 24. Prohibition of employment of children in factories, etc. — No child below the age of fourteen years shall be employed to work in any factory or mine or engaged in any other hazardous employment. Right to Freedom of Religion 25. Freedom of conscience and free profession, practice and propagation of religion —(1) Subject to public order, morality and health and to the other provisions of this Part, all persons are equally entitled to freedom of conscience and the right freely to profess, practice and propagate religion. (2) Nothing in this article shall affect the operation of any existing law or prevent the State from making any law — (a) regulating or restricting any economic, financial, political or other secular activity which may be associated with religious practice; (b) providing for social welfare and reform or the throwing open of Hindu religious institutions of a public character to all classes and sections of Hindus…. Cultural and Educational Rights 29. Protection of interests of minorities — (1) Any section of the citizens residing in the territory of India or any part thereof having a distinct language, script or culture of its own shall have the right to conserve the same. (2) No citizen shall be denied admission into any educational institution maintained by the State or receiving aid out of State funds on grounds only of religion, race, caste, language or any of them…. 34. Restriction on rights conferred by this Part while martial law is in force in any area – ..Parliament may by law indemnify any person in the service of the Union or of a State or any other person in respect of any act done by him in connection with the maintenance or restoration of order in any area within the territory of India where martial law was in force or validate any sentence passed, punishment inflicted, forfeiture ordered or other act done under martial law in such area…. 51-A. Fundamental duties — It shall be the duty of every citizen of India — (a) to abide by the Constitution and respect its ideals and institutions, the National Flag and the National Anthem; (b) to cherish and follow the noble ideals which inspired our national struggle for freedom; (c) to uphold and protect the sovereignty, unity and integrity of India; (d) to defend the country and render national service when called upon to do so; (e) to promote harmony and the spirit of common brotherhood amongst all the people of India transcending religious, linguistic and regional or sectional diversities; to renounce practice derogatory to the dignity of women; (f) to value and preserve the rich heritage of our composite culture; (g) to protect and improve the natural environment including forests, lakes, rivers and wild life, and to have compassion for living creatures; (h) to develop the scientific temper, humanism and the spirit of inquiry and reform; (i) to safeguard public property and to abjure violence; (j) to strive towards excellence in all spheres of individual and collective activity so that the nation constantly rises to higher levels of endeavour and achievement.
Gúthwinë was the sword that belonged to Éomer. It was borne by him at the Battle of the Hornburg, and presumably at the Battle of the Pelennor Fields and the battle before Morannon. In Old English, Gúthwinë means "Battle-friend". Portrayal in adaptationsEdit The Lord of the Rings film trilogyEdit In The Two Towers, Gúthwinë is shown as having a fullered blade and both the guard and the pommel were of bronze. The guard was shaped like horses' heads, one on each side of the blade. The sword slew many orcs in its time, especially Uruks of Isengard, and earned a large reputation as the sword of Rohan. - ↑ The Lord of the Rings, The Two Towers, Book Three, Chapter VII: "Helm's Deep" - ↑ Parma Eldalamberon, Words, Phrases and Passages in Various Tongues in The Lord of the Rings by J.R.R. Tolkien
The robot in the picture above is called YOLO, which stands for “your own living object.” It’s pretty weird looking—not like something you or I would design if someone were to tell us to design a social robot, right? And that’s because YOLO is a robot that was designed by, and for, children. Not adults making the kind of robot that they think kids will want, mind you, but actual children doing the designing from scratch. Getting children to design a robot was not easy. It took years to take YOLO from concept to physical reality, incorporating considerations for simplicity, cost, and a level of durability that’s compatible with open-ended play. The end result was something completely different, and also something that was very effective at helping kids tell better stories. Human-centered design of robots can be very challenging, because once you’ve gotten a robot to a point where you’re ready for user testing, the kinds of major changes that you can easily implement are typically pretty minor. On the other hand, if you try and get user input earlier, you’re generally restricted to things like interviews or questionnaires or asking people to look at images or animations, and none of that stuff is very reliable at providing useful feedback in the same way that interaction with a physical robot would be. When you start talking about children, things get even more difficult, because even those questionnaires don’t work nearly as well as they would with an adult. This is a big problem because social robots are potentially (I would argue) very valuable for children as tools for education and social development. We’re not there with social robots yet, of course, but understanding how to design robots for kids is, if not step one, still one of the things that we need to figure out early. What’s so cool about YOLO is how unapologetically child-centric the entire process is; there doesn’t seem to be even a little bit of adult going on in that robot. But it took input from 142 children to get to this point. For the humans working on this, YOLO has been quite a journey. For more details on YOLO and the thought and process behind the design, we spoke with YOLO’s creator, Patrícia Alves-Oliveira. IEEE Spectrum: What are your general impressions of the current generation of social robots for children? Patrícia Alves-Oliveira: Social robots seem to be the new generation of toys for children. Toys, in general, are the most important tool in a child’s life because while manipulating them, children learn to explore the world. Toys are the very first tool children use to express their own emotions and thoughts. The way we use tools, and toys in the case of children, can deeply influence and transform how we learn and experience the world. If we think of social robots for children as the new generation of tools, it feels that children can have access to a richer playset which enables them to be stimulated in new ways that traditional toys cannot elicit. Consequently, they can experience the world in richer ways. What kind of toys are social robots? Social robots can include robots for play and robots for learning. Robots for play usually take the form of an animal or a doll, and often include human-like features, such as eyes and a mouth. When children use robots for play, they are not only being entertained, but also stimulated. For example, they learn about problem solving, conflict resolution, and social-emotional skills while paying. This is possible because the robot can play back to them, resulting in bi-directional play, or social play. The play does not only depend on the child’s imagination, but also on the relationship that they can build with this artificial embodied system. By contrast, robots for learning are deliberately designed to teach children something specific. They’re a tangible way of learning about abstract concepts that otherwise would be hard to digest. For example, children can use robots to learn about geometry—perhaps they need to program a robot to make a right angle, so they learn that 90º means a right angle, and that if the robot continues making right turns, it can actually make the shape of a rectangle. These types of robots are generally less animal-like or human-like, and instead have a more practical shape, such as a cube on wheels. Can you describe what makes YOLO different? YOLO is a robot whose purpose is to stimulate creativity in children during play. To do this, YOLO uses two techniques called “mirroring” and “contrasting.” These two techniques derive from creativity research and serve to develop convergent and divergent thinking, which are two different types of creative thought that we all have. When YOLO uses mirroring, it means the robot mimics the same play patterns that children perform while manipulating the robot. So, if children move the robot to the right, YOLO memorizes this movement, and then mimics it. If we imagine what this means within a storytelling context, we can imagine a child moving the robot to the right because “the robot is going to school.” As the robot mimics this movement, the child understands that as a “yes, YOLO is continuing going to school.” The mirroring technique stimulates convergent thinking, related to the elaboration and exploration of details about one single idea. When YOLO uses contrasting, it means the robot is contrasting the child’s play pattern. Taking the same school example, if a child moves the robot to the right to signal it’s going to school, the robot will then contrast that movement by moving to the left. In the context of storytelling, the child might think “oh, there is something the robot is afraid of in school!” This will shift the story, and children are likely to make a shift in their story narratives. The contrast technique stimulates divergent thinking, as children need to incorporate the novel behavior of the robot in their story in such a way that the story continues to make sense. Note: the following video is an example of an original story created by a Portuguese child playing with YOLO. To protect the privacy of the child, the story was animated by an artist. Why is this approach with YOLO valuable? The value of YOLO lies in its interaction with children. The main idea is that through the interaction between children and YOLO, children’s creative abilities can be stimulated. While this robot uses creativity stimulation techniques, it’s also simple enough for children to play with it as a normal toy. YOLO incorporates both the benefits of social robotics combined with already known benefits of traditional toys. Overall, when creating stories with YOLO, children have more original ideas. The reason why we were able to create such a robot is because children were involved in the entire design of the robot from the beginning. My major design principle for YOLO was that it can fit a child’s world. The way I accomplished this was to test and test and test YOLO with children until the robot was as natural to use as a toy. If you had been asked to design a robot to perform YOLO’s function without the input of children, how do you think the robot would be different? I believe YOLO would be very different. But I also believe that YOLO would be very different if another sample of children was brought in during the design process. My key insight has been that even if the way the robot looks changes, the essence of YOLO’s interactions with children would remain stable. This is because we can keep the key aspects of YOLO’s operation constant, including creativity provocation, open-ended play, ease of use, and abstract non-anthropomorphic design. This means that YOLO can have a different shape and express itself using different physical behaviors, while still using the same creativity techniques. Why is avoiding anthropomorphism important? The main reason is that it’s much harder to fulfill expectations if we design a robot that looks like a human, because people will expect the robot to behave as a human, which is never the case due to technological shortcomings. Staying away from designing human-like robots also ended up being a gift in disguise as this opens new spaces when thinking of robots: if not like us, how should a robot look? I think this question is beautiful, and can open doors for many creative and innovative applications of robots. When you design with children, how do you separate physical robot design, and robot purpose and functionality? The design of YOLO began with the basic idea of moving a cube around. Many children’s toys have geometric shapes, so I started by building paper cubes using origami techniques. The paper cubes I built were of different sizes, and I asked children to create a story using the cubes as their characters. I then just observed how children as they played with the cubes, and based on their play, I made design decisions about YOLO. For example, I started noticing that while grabbing the paper cubes, children would grasp the edges of the cube, making the edges round with use. I realized that these edges were not ideal for grasping and so I gave the children a new design with rounded edges. This is when the shape of the robot started being designed. To design YOLO’s behaviors, I listened to how children told stories while using the paper cubes. They generally attributed specific personality traits to their paper cube characters. One character was grumpy, another was shy, and so on. This led me to think that YOLO should also exhibit personality as a way to engage children in their storytelling, and I started reading about personality research, specifically looking at non-verbal behaviors associated with personality expression. The next step was to translate the personality requirements onto the shape of the robot. For a grumpy personality, YOLO would move fast and with high amplitude movements. For a shy robot, YOLO would move slowly and with low amplitude movements, almost saying “don’t look at me, I am not here!” A series of images showing different iterations of the YOLO robot, from sketches, to paper models, to designs of different sizes and shapes.Patrícia Alves-Oliveira How much iteration did it take to arrive at YOLO’s final design? I refined the robot a lot, changed the shape, the size, and the multimodal expression. I always included children to test every change, and I drew from their behavior as inspiration for the next design iteration. To give an example, at some point YOLO was making abstract sounds as an expressive modality. When children interacted with this prototype version, they completely ignored the sounds and talked on top of the robot, sometimes yelling over it. This indicated hat the sounds of the robot were obstructing their own expression in the story, so sounds were removed, and YOLO is now a silent robot. Another example was the inclusion of touch as a social feature. When I was testing the first actuated prototype, YOLO would start moving while children were holding it, and the movements of the robot scared children. I remember one child actually said, “the robot does not like me, it wants to go away.” After this testing session, I incorporated a touch sensor in YOLO, so when it recognizes touch, YOLO does not move because a child is holding and playing with it. YOLO starts moving only when the touch sensor does not recognize touch anymore, to ensure that the play of children is not interrupted. This made a huge difference in the flow of the interaction. Close up images of the YOLO robot showing wheels, a touch sensor, and a forest of small plastic whiskers with LEDs under them growing out of the robot’s headPatrícia Alves-Oliveira How do you incorporate multiple children (who may feel and want different things) into the design process for a single robot? I’ve included children from 7-9 years old in the design of YOLO. Within this specific age group, children are in the same developmental stage where they attach abstract concepts to concrete situations and use objects locally present as a tool to learn and understand the world. Although there are differences related to a child’s personality and preferences, the way children use, manipulate, and understand objects is quite similar at this age. This was true also in the context of the robot’s design. Knowing the developmental stage of children helped me choose the activities and materials to use during the design sessions to best define the design requirements for the robot. While designing YOLO, I faced a question that I think many designers face: When is the robot design finished? It is easy to fall into feature creep and keep adding and adding and adding features. To avoid this, I focused on design principles rather than designing features. The distinction between a principle and a feature is that when you design for a feature, you add or remove the exact option the user is asking for. This can make the design short-sighted. Take the example of a child getting scared if YOLO started moving while they were holding it. Designing for features would mean removing the ability of the robot to move. However, if we design for principles, we require a deeper understanding of the interaction between the child and the robot. Once we have this, it’s clear that the main problem here was not the robot moving, but the timing of the robot staying still. So the child does not necessarily want a stationary robot; but rather a robot they can have some control over, and instead of removing the navigation possibility, we added a touch sensor that would stop the robot from moving while being held. Do you think this long process was worthwhile? Building YOLO, the way I did, was a 4-year journey that enabled me to explore many aspects about how robots can be used to nurture intrinsic human abilities, such as creativity. While I was designing and building YOLO, I faced many questions, such as what does it mean to build a robot for creativity? What methods do I need to develop to successfully include children in the design of the robot? How can I measure the success of using YOLO for creativity stimulation? Being able to answer all of these questions was a valuable part of designing and fabricating YOLO, and I feel that as we answer these questions with a robot like YOLO, we are also contributing to many other fields, such as psychology, design, and engineering more broadly. A paper detailing the design of YOLO received the best paper award in the design track of the HRI 2021 conference, and you can see Patrícia Alves-Oliveira give a talk about her research here. Source: IEEE Spectrum
Metal additive manufacturing (AM) is growing at a fast-paced spurring the world’s current economy. According to the Wohler’s Report metal AM grew nearly 76% from 2012 to 2013. Much of this growth is due to the advancement of metal AM from prototyping applications to part production in aerospace, energy and medical industries. Powder bed fusion is the current market leader in metal additive manufacturing. In this AM technique a high power continuous fiber laser is used to melt layers of powdered metal by scanning the laser over a powder bed, melting the powder and bonding it to a 2D substrate. The use of a continuous fiber laser makes the instrumentation expensive and the scanning requirement, and associated controls of laser spot size, power and velocity, makes the build process very time consuming. Continued growth will require penetration of new markets with new metal AM techniques that address cost and speed of production. LLNL scientists have developed a new metal additive manufacturing technique that uses diode lasers in conjunction with a programmable mask to generate 2D patterns of energy at the powder surface. The method can produce entire layers in a single laser shot, rather than producing layers spot by spot as is currently done in powder bed fusion methods. Cost reduction is achieved. Diode lasers cost typically 20 times less than currently used fiber lasers (on a $/W basis). Scalability is enhanced. Entire layers are produced at one time by using diodes and patterned masks. Accelerate the production rate of additive manufacturing, especially those of metal systems where the energy input required is highest. Proof of concept has been achieved at a laboratory scale. Patent protection for a portfolio of intellectual property is being pursued. Published patent application 2014/0252687
The region Bergisches Land is located in southern part of North-Rhine-Westfalia in Germany. Geologically it belongs to the Rhenish Slate Mountains. Its western border is the river Rhine and on the east side it merges into the so called Sauerland, one of the Central German Uplands. The major part of the area is characterized by a low mountain landscape rich in variety with forests, meadows, hills and V-shaped river valleys. Many of the rivers are dammed up to artificial lakes, which serve either as reservoirs for drinking water or industrial water, or as recreational areas. There are more than 20 artificial lakes in this small region, which is unique in the world. Some of the recreational lakes serve as popular dive sites, but conditions vary widely throughout the year. As the lakes are fed and drained by rivers, which carry or swirl up sediments, conditions seem to depend on weather conditions, flow rates and the water level among other factors. All these may as well influence the overall water quality and biodiversity. In order to monitor these factors our volunteer team will regularly collect corresponding data. As a first step we will focus on water temperature, visibility, water level and easily accessible chemical data as pH-value and nitrate. Furthermore, according to our suggestion that weather conditions may have an influence on current water status, we will list meteorological data as the average air temperature, total precipitation and sunshine hours on a monthly base. We plan to measure more demanding parameters as saprobic index and algae growth in the future as resources hopefully grow. Basically the Project is not limited to a defined number of sites, but as resources are limited we will start with one site, which is the so called Wuppertalsperre. HOW TO SUBMIT DATA There are two ways to submit data to the Project Baseline database. You can submit data for existing projects, and you can submit data for projects that are not currently hosted (ad-hoc) in the database.
The investigation of past cultures of the modern nationstate of France through the study and scientific analysis of material remains (i.e., osteological, artifactual, architectural, etc.). Related categories 1 Archaeological Guides of France: Great Archeological Sites Monographs published by the French Ministry of Culture on prehistoric or ancient sites or towns, or describing the ruins of a region. Abstracts online. Britain and France in Dispute Over Cave Art From the Telegraph, British claim the French may have exaggerated their age by 18,000 years under official pressure to promote them as the oldest cave paintings in the world. The Cave of Lascaux The French Ministry of Culture provides a virtual tour of this famous Paleolithic cave with text links on its history and artwork. Cave Reveals Spectacular Secrets From the BBC, French archaeologists find a cave in the Dordogne covered with drawings which they think are almost 30,000 years old. An illustrated art-historical analysis of coins of the Coriosolites of Brittany by John Hooker, based on the La Marquanderie hoard from Jersey. Maps of hoard discoveries and mint zones. History of its discovery, and pictures of the finds, and the scientific research The French Ministry of Culture describes a Paleolithic art gallery in a cave that can be accessed only through a 175-meter tunnel beneath sea level. Photographs of the animal drawings and hand stencils that decorate it. Excavations at Colletière The French Ministry of Culture describes the 'farmer-knights' who settled c.1010 CE on the wooded shores of Paladru lake and the techniques that have uncovered the evidence for them. France Cave Paintings & Rock Art Archive Provides photographs and information on the cave paintings of southern France. Lascaux Cave Paintings and Location Photographs and information on what may be the most beautiful Paleolithic painted cave in the world. Saint-Denis: A Town of the Middle Ages Maps and 3D images, objects, a slide show, games, animations and educational materials reveal the city's portrait and its shape as it changed over time. Includes details of the town's archaeological unit and its work. Dietler Discovers Statue in France that Reflects an Etruscan Influence From the Chronicle, life-sized statue of a warrior discovered in southern France reflects a stronger cultural influence for the Etruscan civilization throughout the western Mediterranean region than previously appreciated. (February 19, 2004) Archaeologists Trace early Britons in Brittany The Oxford University Gazette reports that excavations at Le Yaudet under Profs. Barry Cunliffe and Patrick Galliou suggest that Britons fled there from the West Country. (December 11, 1997) Other languages 2 Last update:January 3, 2015 at 13:35:10 UTC
Agreement On Food Safety International trade rules continue to change as they adapt to the global economy. Rights and obligations under international trade agreements have challenged the balance of food security, food regulation and trade flows. Article 20 of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) allows governments to act in trade to protect the life or health of humans, animals or plants, unless they discriminate or use it as protectionism in disguise. In addition, two specific WTO agreements deal with food safety and animal and plant health and safety, as well as product standards in general. Both are trying to figure out how to respond to the need to apply standards while avoiding disguised protectionism. These issues are increasingly important due to falling customs barriers, with some comparing them to the sea rocks that occur at low tide. In both cases, it is less likely that a country, when applying international standards, will be legally challenged in the WTO than if it sets its own standards. The agreement still allows countries to apply different standards and different methods of product inspection. So how can an exporting country be sure that the practices it applies to its products are acceptable in an importing country? If an exporting country can demonstrate that the measures it applies to its exports achieve the same level of human health protection as in the importing country, the importing country is expected to accept the standards and methods of the exporting country. The Agreement contains provisions on control, inspection and authorisation procedures. Governments should inform new or amended sanitary and phytosanitary legislation in advance and establish a national information body providing information. The agreement complements the agreement on technical barriers to trade. The evaluation of the implementation of the HACCP system in contract catering companies and the evaluation of the knowledge, attitudes and practices of grocers were the main objectives of this study. It was carried out in 20 companies throughout Spain, with a visual inspection of the establishments and activities of grocers, as well as the distribution of a self-managing questionnaire among the 105 participating catering workers. In addition, samples of finished surfaces and tableware were taken from each kitchen for microbiological evaluation. The results of the questionnaires reflect a broad knowledge and correct behaviour of respondents with an average or higher level of education, stability in the same workplace and more responsible positions. However, the observation of hygiene practices revealed systematic errors in 60% of the kitchens. Most of the variations observed were related to lack of HACCP training and information, temperature of finished dishes, storage areas, and proper cleaning and disinfection. In summary, this study confirms the inherent difficulties of the restoration company in the effective implementation of the HACCP system, such as. B the lack of well-trained staff, the lack of motivation or responsibility of workers in this system and the lack of financial and economic resources to remedy the shortcomings of the establishments. Specific education programmes and grants are needed for proper implementation of HACCP in this sector. The agreement also contains a code of conduct for governments and non-governmental or industrial organizations for the preparation, adoption and implementation of voluntary standards. More than 200 standards bodies apply the code. Strengthening intra-African agricultural trade is an opportunity to both boost economic growth and improve access to safe and nutritious food across borders. . . .
Many good novels in the past have had films produced about their storyline. However, producers often modify the plot, change the characters and introduce new events and ideas to try and make the film more appealing to viewers. As a result the novel Goodnight Mr Tom by Michelle Magorian has been reproduced in the 1998 classic called Good Night Mr Tom starring John Thaw and Nick Robinson. This essay will explore the differences between the book and the film as well as focussing on whether the film has captured the characters of Tom and Will representing them as the novel intended. If you need assistance with writing your essay, our professional essay writing service is here to help!Essay Writing Service The novel Goodnight Mr Tom by Michelle Magorian is set in Little Weirworld a small town near London, England. The novel was set during World War Two while The Blitz was occurring. This was where the Germans were bombing London, and everyone was instructed to erect black out curtains. Both the novel and film portrays the story of a young boy called William Beech who is sent to live with an old man called Tom Oakley. In the novel William is depicted as a shy, troubled, young boy, around the age of 9, who is beaten by his abusive, single mother. His mother believes he is a selfish boy. William does not talk much and has been taught to never ask questions. He is “assigned” to old Mr Tom Oakley, a tough widower who lost his young wife and small son many years ago. William finds it difficult at first to communicate and live in the village with many strangers. “No one had ever said they liked him. He had always excepted no one did.”(Chap 6) He vomits from excitement and wets the bed nightly, often fearful he would be in trouble. Mr Tom struggles to reach out to poor Willie, realising he has never been taught to read and write. Tom soon discovered that William is a very talented artist who loves to draw. As William feels more comfortable he meets a friend at the post office named Zacharias Wrench, eventually with other friends they form a group where they come together and write a newspaper. Gradually Mr. Tom’s kindness and encouragement rises above Willie’s fears, and he becomes a happy, normal boy who loves his carer and friend dearly. In the film the character of William is very similar to the novels portrayal, although he doesn’t seem as weak or frightened. Both the film and the novel allow the readers or viewers to witness the immense changes in William in the way he acts compared to the beginning of the film or novel. Novels are able to explain what goes on in a character’s mind, but films often only show what can be seen and heard, thus we learn about William from the novel than the film. However even though the film did not describe William as much, it gives a fair representation of the character William. The relationship between Mr Tom and William is central to the film and the novel. However, the limited time frame of the film does not allow for this relationship to be presented with as much detail as the novel. Mr. Tom has a reputation for being unkind and harsh, but the reader soon learns he is withdrawn because he is grieving for his deceased wife and child. While Mr Tom is a stern, old, grumpy man at first, he turns into a lovely, caring man with feelings for his new found child and friend William. Chapter one describes Mr Tom as “Well into his sixties, a healthy, robust, stockily built man with a head of thick white hair.” Mr. Tom always let William be himself, loved him for who he was, and tried desperately to communicate this to him. Mr Tom lives alone in a small house, loves to garden and has a dog called Sam. When William first arrives at his new house, afraid of the barking dog Will attempts to beat Sam. Mr Tom grabs the stick and stops him. Will had been taught that dogs were the devil. Mr Tom struggles to reach out to poor Willie, giving him his first birthday party, taking him fishing and encouraging him to draw. Together they form a trusted friendship enough for Mr Tom to rescue him from London during the bombing. While Mr Tom has been very good for William, this has enabled Mr Tom to also move on and heal from his past loss. Our academic experts are ready and waiting to assist with any writing project you may have. From simple essay plans, through to full dissertations, you can guarantee we have a service perfectly matched to your needs.View our services While the film captures the nicer side of Tom it doesn’t give a fair representation of his tougher side. Both the film and the novel give minimal insight into his past family relationships. The film shows Mr Tom being sad and visiting the grave of his Wife and Son every morning, thus capturing his loneliness and grief, this has been shown better in the film than the novel. While the novel can’t describe everything it does capture the characters feelings, whereas the film can’t include everything in the short space of viewing time. However the film shows good visual representations of Tom an William Cite This Work To export a reference to this article please select a referencing stye below: Related ServicesView all DMCA / Removal Request If you are the original writer of this essay and no longer wish to have your work published on UKEssays.com then please:
In January we began a survey of the history of American orchestral music with George Bristow, born in 1825. Now in December we end 2016 with two composers who lived into the 1940s, wrapping up an American century with Frederick Shepherd Converse and Carl Busch, representing American music as well as any other two. New Englander Converse could be a model for the American composer at that time. The son of a wealthy businessman, his musical gifts overrode his father’s desire for him to join the business. He studied composition with John Knowles Paine and George W. Chadwick, then went to Munich and studied with Chadwick’s teacher Joseph Rheinberger. Returning to the States, he taught at Boston’s New England Conservatory of Music (Chadwick having in the meantime become its director), then at Harvard. But after only eight years total of teaching, Converse left academia to compose full-time. He wrote choral and orchestral works, as well as operas. The Irish-themed The Pipe of Desire was the first opera by a native-born American to see the stage of the Metropolitan Opera. The small Serenade for strings was followed by his grand tone poem, The Mystic Trumpeter, which was based on Walt Whitman, and premiered by the young Philadelphia Orchestra in 1904. Along with The Mystic Trumpeter, his much later Flivver Ten Million has become his most-played orchestral work. Flivver humorously celebrates the ten-millionth Ford Model T to roll off the conveyor belt. Converse said he wondered “what Mark Twain would have done with such a theme if he had been a musician.” The Danish composer and violinist Carl Busch studied in Brussels and Paris, and at 25 was invited to Kansas City, Missouri by the Danish consulate there. He formed a string quartet, came to the United States, and stayed. He became the leading musician in Kansas City, directing the Philharmonic Choral Society and the Kansas City Symphony Orchestra. Busch fell in love with American Western and Native American cultures. Many of his works use home-grown melodies, including, in his Four North American Legends, Chippewa tunes. The so-called Indianist Movement in music, though a short-lived phase, grew out of the urge to find unique American folk elements from which to craft an American classical music. The irony that Americans were partly spurred on in this quest by foreigners has not been lost. Antonin Dvorak famously wrote the very thing in the 1890s while here, and the Danish-American Carl Busch was one of those who led the way. Discoveries from the Fleisher Collection, Saturday, December 3rd, 5 to 6 pm, with hosts Kile Smith and Jack Moore. Frederick Shepherd Converse (1871-1940). Serenade (c.1903) Converse. The Mystic Trumpeter (1904) Carl Busch (1862-1943). Omaha Indian Love Song; Chippewa Lullaby, from Four North American Legends (1918) Busch. Elegie (1899) Converse. Flivver Ten Million (1926)
Wednesday, October 13, 2010 SEEDS OF CHANGE- JEN CULLERTON JOHNSON "Those trees you are cutting down today were not planted by you but by those who came before. You must plant trees that will benefit the community to come, like a seedling with sun, good soil, and abundant rain, the roots of our future will bury themselves in the ground and a canopy of hope will reach the sky." SEEDS OF CHANGE is the biography of Nobel Peace Prize winner Wangari Maathai. Maathai grew up in Kenya and attended college in the United States. When she returned to Kenya, Matthai was deeply saddened by the deforestation of her country. She started the Greenbelt Movement, a group which restored the Kenyan countryside by planting over thirty million trees. Matthai was a groundbreaker many times over-- when she was growing up, not many girls went to school, or continued on to college, or became university professors. At one point, she was even jailed by corrupt politicians more concerned about profits than reforestation. This is a well-told story with gorgeous, vibrant, richly illustrations (by artist Sonia Lynn Sadler) that beg to be closely examined. I could use this book in a hundred ways. Our second graders are doing a science unit on trees and plants right now. Almost every day, a very serious seven-year-old reminds me that I should not cut down any trees because they give oxygen to the earth. I'll start by giving the book to them this morning. Our third graders are working on ecosystems and this book would be perfect for that unit. It's also a great biography. Or would be perfect in a unit on courage. Or change. Or the power of the individual. Or it might be fun to look for other books about Nobel Peace Prize winners and string them together. And then there are those illustrations, that just beg to be studied and imitated…
Japan is set to be nuclear power-free, for just the third time in more than four decades, and with no firm date for re-starting an energy source that has provided about 30 percent of electricity to the world’s third-largest economy. >Kansai Electric Power Co’s 1,180 MW Ohi No.4 reactor is scheduled to be disconnected from the power grid late on Sunday and then shut for planned maintenance. It is the only one of Japan’s 50 reactors in operation after the nuclear industry came to a virtual halt following the March 2011 Fukushima disaster. Japan last went without nuclear power in May-June 2012 – the first shutdown since 1970 – a year after a massive earthquake and tsunami triggered reactor meltdowns and radiation leaks at the Fukushima facility. The country’s nuclear reactors provided close to a third of the electricity to keep the $5 trillion economy going before the Fukushima disaster, and utilities have had to spend billions of dollars importing oil, gas and coal to make up for the shortfall. […] Japan consumes about a third of the world’s liquefied natural gas (LNG) production, and will likely boost LNG demand to record levels over the next couple of years. LNG imports rose 4.4 percent in volume to a record 86.87 million tonnes, and 14.9 percent in value to a record 6.21 trillion yen ($62.1 billion) in the year through March. Imports are likely to rise to around 88 million tonnes this year and around 90 million tonnes in the year to March 2015, according to projections by the Institute of Energy Economics Japan based on a mid-scenario that 16 reactors will be back on-line by March 2015.< See on www.scientificamerican.com
Modern humans crowded out Europes Neanderthals Scientists have long debated what caused the Neanderthals to die off rather suddenly, making way for the thriving population of more advanced Homo sapiens who likely moved in from Africa. The latest theory, published in the journal Science, is based on a statistical analysis of artifacts and evidence from the Perigord region of southern France, where lies the largest concentration of Neanderthal and early modern human sites in Europe. Researchers at the University of Cambridge found more sites where modern humans settled, larger settlement areas, greater densities of tools and bigger amounts of animal and food remains, suggesting Neanderthals were crowded out. Homo sapiens also likely had more elaborate social networks and possibly sharper brains, as evidenced by the stone tools, jewelry and artwork they left behind which was much more advanced than Neanderthal creations. Their arrival in such large numbers likely forced Neanderthals from their habitual settlements and into places where food and shelter were harder to find, said lead author Paul Mellars of Cambridge University. “It was clearly this range of new technological and behavioral innovations which allowed the modern human populations to invade and survive in much larger population numbers than those of the preceding Neanderthals across the whole of the European continent,” he said. “Faced with this kind of competition, the Neanderthals seem to have retreated initially into more marginal and less attractive regions of the continent.” The last traces of Neanderthals, who had survived on the continent for some 300,000 years, have been uncovered in caves in modern-day Spain and Gibraltar. Mellars suggested a final death blow may have been delivered by a harsh cold snap, a theory that has been debated in the scientific community for many years. The Neanderthals’ extinction may have been “accelerated further by sudden climatic deterioration across the continent around 40,000 years ago,” he said.
USGS Groundwater Information Groundwater Resources Program New & Noteworthy Press Release: High Plains Aquifer Groundwater Levels Continue to Decline USGS Groundwater Watch USGS maintains a network of active wells to provide basic statistics about groundwater levels. Other Water Topics USGS in Your State USGS Water Science Centers are located in each state. Recession-Curve Displacement Method for Estimating Groundwater Recharge In Humid Regions References for the Recession-Curve Displacement Method Bevans, H.E., 1986, Estimating stream-aquifer interactions in coal areas of eastern Kansas by using streamflow records, in Subitzky, Seymour, ed., Selected papers in the Hydrologic Sciences: U.S. Geological Survey Water-Supply Paper 2290, p. 51-64. Chen, W.P., and Lee, C.H., 2003, Estimating ground-water recharge from streamflow records: Environmental Geology, vol 44., p. 257-265. Coes, A.L., Spruill, T.B., and Thomasson, M.J., 2007, Comparison of recharge rates estimated from multiple methods for a shallow unconfined aquifer: Hydrogeology Journal, accessed online Feb 7, 2007 at http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s10040-006-0123-3 Daniel, J.F., 1976, Estimating groundwater evapotranspiration from streamflow records: Water Resources Research, v. 12, no. 3 p. 360-364. Delin, G.N., Healy, R.W., Lorenz, D.L., and Nimmo, J.R., 2007, Comparison of local- to regional-scale estimates of ground-water recharge in Minnesota, USA: Journal of Hydrology, vol. 334, no. 1-2, p.231-249. Dumouchelle, D.H., and Schiefer, M.C., 2002, Use of streamflow records and basin characteristics to estimate ground-water recharge rates in Ohio: Ohio Dept. of Natural Resources, Division of Water, Bulletin 46, 32 p. Flynn, R.H., and Tasker, G.D., 2004, Generalized estimates from streamflow data of annual and seasonal ground-water-recharge rates for drainage basins in New Hampshire: U.S. Geological Survey Scientific Investigations Report 2004-5019 27 p. Glover, R. E., 1964, Ground-water movement: U.S. Bureau of Reclamation Engineering Monograph Series no. 31, p. 31-34. Halford, K.J., and Mayer, G.C., 2000, Problems associated with estimating ground water discharge and recharge from stream-discharge records: Ground Water, vol. 38, no. 3, p. 331-342. Lorenz, D.W., and Delin, G.N., A regression model to estimate regional ground-water recharge in Minnesota: Ground Water Vol 45, no. 2, p 196-208. Mau, D.P., and Winter, T.C., 1996, Estimating ground-water recharge from streamflow hydrographs from a small mountain watershed in a temperate humid climate, New Hampshire, USA: Ground Water, vol. 35, no. 2, p. 291-304. Risser, D.W., Conger, R.W., Ulrich, J.E., and Asmussen, M.P., 2005a, Estimates of ground-water recharge based on streamflow-hydrograph methods: Pennsylvania: U.S. Geological Survey Open-File Report 2005-1333, 30 p. Risser, D.W., Gburek, W.J., and Folmar, G.J., 2005b, Comparison of methods for estimating ground-water recharge and base flow at a small watershed underlain by fractured bedrock in the eastern United States: U.S. Geological Survey Scientific Investigations Report 2005-5038, 31 p. Rorabaugh, M.I., 1960, Use of water levels in estimating aquifer constants in a finite aquifer: International Association of Scientific Hydrology, Publication 52, p. 314-323 Rorabaugh, M.I., 1964, Estimating changes in bank storage and ground-water contribution to streamflow: International Association of Scientific Hydrology, Publication 63, p. 432-441. Rorabaugh, M.I. and Simons, W.D., 1966, Exploration of methods relating ground water to surface water, Columbia River basin – second phase: U.S. Geological Survey Open-File Report, 62 p. Ruhl, J.F., Kanivetsky, Roman, Shmagin, Boris, 2002, Estimates of recharge to unconfined aquifers and leakage to confined aquifers in the seven-county metropolitan area of Minneapolis-St. Paul, Minnesota, U.S. Geological Survey Water-Resources Investigations Report 02-4092, 32 p. Rutledge, A.T., 1997, Model estimated ground-water recharge and hydrograph of ground-water discharge to a stream: U.S. Geol. Survey Water Resources Investigations Report 97-4253, 29 p. Rutledge, A.T., 1998, Computer programs for describing the recession of ground-water discharge and for estimating mean ground-water recharge and discharge from streamflow data – update: U.S. Geological Survey Water-Resources Investigations Report 98-4148, 43 p. Rutledge, A.T., 2000, Considerations for use of the RORA program to estimate ground-water recharge from streamflow records: U.S. Geological Survey Open-File Report 00-156, 44 p. Rutledge, A.T., 2002, User guide for the PULSE program: U.S. Geological Survey Open-File Report 02-455, p. 34. Rutledge, A.T., 2004, Use of RORA for complex ground-water flow conditions: U.S. Geological Survey Water-Resources Investigations Report 2003-4304, 5 p. Rutledge, A.T. and Mesko, T.O., 1996, Estimated hydrologic characteristics of shallow aquifer systems in the Valley and Ridge, the Blue Ridge, and the Piedmont physiographic provinces based on analysis of streamflow recession and base flow: U.S. Geological Survey Professional Paper 1422-B, 58 p. Sun, Honging, 2004, Estimating the fate of precipitation from stream discharge: A case study in New Jersey: Bulletin New Jersey Academy of Science, vol 49, no. 2, p. 9-15.
We all know the human heart helps pump blood throughout our bodies, but there are some components involved in the heart that most people don’t know about. The more we learn about something, the better we can understand. The University of Tokyo created a virtual simulation of the heart and its function. Using something called the Finite Element Method, they showed the amount of energy consumed in each part of the heart. The virtual representation viewed the heart’s surface and the differences in thickness of the heart’s muscle and interior structure. It goes on to explain how the heart has two sides, in which the right side has the right atrium and ventricle that connect to the pulmonary artery. The left side has the an atrium and ventricle as well but is connected to the aorta. Located between the left atrium and ventricle is the mitral valve, and aortic valve is located between the left ventricle and the aorta. The lungs give oxygen to the blood which goes from the pulmonary vein into the heart then to the left atrium. The left ventricle, found behind the mitral valve, pumps blood and rotates it 180 degrees in the direction of the aortic valve. Oxygen and nutrients are carried throughout the body when blood is strongly pushed toward the aortic valve and eventually goes through the aorta. The phrase blood pressure comes from the pressure of the aorta. A person’s blood pressure goes up as the heart contracts and goes down as it relaxes. The more we understand the heart, then the better doctors can more accurately predict a patient’s results. Devices like an ambulatory cardiac monitor help doctors assist patients in regards to their heart’s activity and increase patient’s chances of avoiding any serious heart issues. For more information on ambulatory cardiac monitors, contact Medicomp at (800) 23-HEART.
It is frequently cited that more than half of us now live in cities. But it might come as more of a surprise to learn that the largest 300 cities, from New York to Guangzhou, account for nearly half (48%) of world economic output ... yet contain only 19% of world population. Some cities are so powerful economically that they dwarf the rest of their country. The number of jobs they house and GDP they generate can account for almost half of their nations' output, if not more. They are no longer just cities: they are approaching the status of city-state. London, for example, produces more than 30% of Britain's entire GDP. Neither is it the most extreme example: it is just 30th on our list of cities that most dominate their countries (see below). The ranking is led by the "classic" city-states – Luxembourg, Macau, Hong Kong, Singapore, places where the city essentially is the country. But look at Brussels (59% of national GDP), Copenhagen (55%) or Tel Aviv (54%). Is it time we start calling them city-states, too? (Note that in a small number of cases, the metro area boundaries extend beyond country borders. This explains why the GDP and employment of Luxembourg City actually exceed those of Luxembourg country. You could almost say Luxembourg country is a "state-city". More detail here [pdf].) What's more, even the smaller cities may be on their way toward city-statehood: according to Brookings' Global Metro Monitor, between 2011-12 most cities in the world grew faster than their countries, either in jobs or GDP.
At the start of the 20th century: Lawrence produced nearly 25% of all the woolen cloth in the U.S. 65% of manufacturing output, 67% of all the capital invested, and 66% of expenditures for material were from woolen mills. 52% of the city’s wages came from the woolen mills. “…there are two very desirable luxuries in the city of Lawrence, Mass., among the mill operatives, that is, molasses on their bread and water.” — Lawrence city official testifying at the March 1912 Congressional hearings on the strike At the time of the strike half of the workers in the four Lawrence mills of the American Woolen Company were girls between 14 and 18. Spinners worked in extremely damp and humid rooms and were vulnerable to tuberculosis and pneumonia. In the years before the 1912 strike, one third of Lawrence’s spinners would die before they had worked ten years. According to Dr. Elizabeth Shapleigh, a Lawrence physician at the time of the strike, “A considerable number of the boys and girls die within the first two or three years after beginning work.” Thirty-six of every 100 of all men and women who work in the mills die before or by the time they are 25 years of age. From the U. S. Immigration Commission (1912): “Thus while probably not over half of the present population is foreign born, only 1/7 of the population is American; that is either not of foreign birth or immediate foreign parentage. The result of this changed situation, due to sixty years of continuous immigration, is both favorable and unfavorable to the assimilation of the immigrant population… The presence of a large semi-Americanized foreign population makes it less and less certain that the newly arrived stranger will be brought into direct contact with American influences and traditions…” In 1910, 65% of mill workers, most of whom eventually struck, lived in the United States less than 10 years; 47% less than five years. The New England Magazine crudely referred to recent immigrants as “the off-scourings of Southern Europe” who “will not be assimilated and have no sympathy with our institutions.”
The ease of doing business rankings for 2017 was recently released by the World Bank. It revealed that India has made a rank progress over 2016. That looks pale in front of the 12 ranks progress made in 2016. The ease of doing business is a composite ranking on 10 parameters (shown in the table below). Though India has improved on the overall rank, its rank has gone down on certain parameters like starting a new business, dealing with construction permits and getting credit, where as it has gone up significantly on certain others like getting electricity and enforcing contracts. It is to be noted here that India’s absolute performance (as measured in Distance to Frontier or DTF score) has risen across all the parameters (except three where it has remained the same). It’s the other countries who have done better and gone up in the ranking list. It’s a competitive world and simply doing good is not good enough, a country has to do better than others in order to improve its rank. World Bank Methodology Economies are ranked on their ease of doing business, from 1–190. A high ease of doing business ranking means the regulatory environment is more conducive to the starting and operation of a local firm. The rankings are determined by sorting the aggregate distance to frontier scores on 10 topics, each consisting of several indicators, giving equal weight to each topic. The rankings for all economies are benchmarked to June 2016. Read the methodology, explaining how the ease of doing business rankings and the distance to frontier measure are calculated (PDF). The distance to frontier score helps assess the absolute level of regulatory performance over time. It measures the distance of each economy to the “frontier,” which represents the best performance observed on each of the indicators across all economies in the Doing Business sample since 2005. One can both see the gap between a particular economy’s performance and the best performance at any point in time and assess the absolute change in the economy’s regulatory environment over time as measured by Doing Business. An economy’s distance to frontier is reflected on a scale from 0 to 100, where 0 represents the lowest performance and 100 represent the frontier. For example, a score of 75 in 2016 means an economy was 25 percentage points away from the frontier constructed from the best performances across all economies and across time. A score of 80 in 2017 would indicate the economy is improving. Source – http://www.doingbusiness.org/ /rankings. India’s Distance to Frontier score on most of the parameters have improved over the last one year. The road ahead for India – Maximum Governance Analysis The ease of doing business rank is going to be a key indicator of India’s ability to turn around the various initiatives to its advantage. Many of the key reforms started during the last one decade have evolved. Coupled with massive policy reforms undertaken by the current government, their effects shall come in the next few years. We believe that the cumulative effect of policy reforms, initiatives and capacity building for implementing them shall bring a big impact by 2018 and significantly improve our ease of doing business for 2019 (to be released in 2018). That in a way may serve as a holistic report card for the current government’s ability to help boost economy by building the right environment before the general elections of 2019. Though there are multiple initiatives and reforms undertaken by the Government, we discuss here three domains of focus for improving India’s ease of doing business rank: 1. A huge opportunity remains in the areas of ‘enforcing contracts’ and ‘resolving insolvency’, both of which fall in the domain of Judiciary. A strong reform measure needs to be taken to bring down the cost of litigation and time taken for judgment and enhance the rate of recovery. India’s current DTF score on both the parameters is in the 30s and offers a big room for improvement. Government recently passed THE INSOLVENCY AND BANKRUPTCY CODE, 2016, which shall help improve the condition. 2. The second area needing great attention is that of ‘dealing with construction permits’, a domain of civic bodies. A large number of processes need to be completed (43 in Mumbai and 29 in Delhi) to get clearance for using physical sites for offices, warehouses, godowns etc. It requires simplification by reducing the number of processes and enhancing the speed of delivery. 3. The third area of big leverage is the ‘paying taxes’ domain. We believe with GST becoming a reality, the number of indirect taxes shall drastically reduce making it a lot simpler. The government is also planning to offer the businesses easier and convenient ways to pay GST. As discussed in the article Unified Digital Identity for Ease of Doing Business, a big push to ease of doing business can be achieved by giving one single identity to the business entity. Rather than interacting with multiple departments of the government with multiple identities (as many numbers and passwords), can there be a single window, which allows to complete all the formalities of starting and running a business. The case of Singapore CorpPass is a great example. Even in India, the work has begin towards that end with Income Tax integrating with TDS portal and Ministry of Labour and Employment issuing one unique Labour Identity Number (LIN) to comply with as many as 44 regulations related to the work force. Another level of integration at the higher level may be required and add immensely to ease of doing business. Last but never the least is the need for greater speed and agility in rolling out these reforms. As highlighted at the beginning of the article, it’s the relative progress vis-à-vis other countries that matters.
They may be small but these mighty berries has a lot to offer. Here’s the list of their mighty benefits: 1.They Fight Against Diseases Both wild and cultivated blueberries has the highest total of antioxidant capacity. Antioxidants fight disease-inducing free radicals in our body. 2.Helps in Reducing Weight Blueberry intake affected genes linked to fat burning and storage. 3.Prevents High Blood Pressure The Blue- Red pigments found in Blueberries which are called “Anthocyanins” helps prevent high blood pressure by lowering the triglycerides and cholesterol level in the body. 4.Aids in Memory Retention The good thing about Anthocyanins in blueberries is that, they not only helps prevent high blood pressure, but anthocyanins also increases neuronal signalling in brain centres for better memory retention. 5.Lowers your risk of Having Cancer Pterostilbene, a compound in blueberries has the ability to suppress colon tumour growth, as well as key inflammatory markers. 6.Protects your Kidneys and Urinary Bladder Like cranberries, blueberries contains compounds that prevents bacteria from adhering to bladder walls, which helps remove Urinary Tract Infections. (UTI) Source: Better Health Publishing
This is ‘What If’ and here’s how you can survive as the last person on earth. So, you wake up one day and find that you’re the only person left in the world. Kind of cool, right? No obligations, no rules, no limits. 没有了责任 没有了规则 没有了限制 Go for the exotic fruits first. If your mangos and bananas are imported from overseas, chances are they’ll be hard to come by. So eat them while you can, and enjoy every last bite. You might think that with no one stopping you, you could go anywhere! But not so fast! All those abandoned cars, boats, and planes you see lying around will be useless in about 2 years when their fuel goes stale. Guess you’ll be sticking around. But for how long? If water, food, and shelter are your basic needs, shelter would be the easiest to come by. You’d literally have a world of homes to choose from! But be careful where you settle down. Cities would become dangerous, since without proper maintenance, they’d start to fall apart pretty quickly. Nature’s elements: rain, frost, and heat, would take their toll. Rot and mold would become widespread, and vegetation would crack through concrete and break through glass. But even if you were able to fight back against nature’s reclamation of the land, all it takes is one bolt of lightning to start a city-wide fire. And you can’t call the fire department. So run for the hills! But even the country isn’t all that safe. First of all, there are predators you’d need to defend against. Wild dogs, feral cats… bears… 野狗 野猫 熊…… But you’d only have to worry about them as long as you could still breathe. There are more than 400 nuclear power plants in the world. And once their automated safety systems began to fail without human supervision, there would be meltdowns across the planet, rendering many regions simply uninhabitable. In terms of food, the city would be your best bet. Supermarkets have enough canned and frozen food to last you for decades! Whereas in the country, crops and livestock would start to dwindle without proper care or protection from predators. But if natural is more your style, you’d have to go back to the old ways of hunting with a spear or a bow, since ammunition would be limited and harder to come by. Maybe you could grow your own little vegetable garden, but that would cut into your water resources. Without other humans, you’d be without electricity. Water pumping stations and treatment works would shut down, and the fresh water kept in reservoirs would go stale quite quickly. You could rely on bottled water, and you’d probably have thousands of litres to go through, but eventually, you’d have to learn how to purify your own. You’d have to teach yourself a lot of things, but lucky for you, you’ve got a lot of time on your hands, and millions of books out there with all the information you’d need to survive effectively on your own. So, while it might be hard at first, you could technically survive as the last human on Earth. But would you really want to? Humans evolved together as social creatures in order to survive. We joined forces against hunger and harsh weather; and built families and communities to share stories, empathize, and keep each other happy and healthy. Human contact has been scientifically proven to build trust and reduce stress. 科学证明 人类的交往可建立信任 减少压力 So, while it’s apt to cramp your style, be glad it’s a small world, we need each other more than you think!
Tisbe biminiensis is perhaps the most recognized copepod species in the Reef Aquarium Hobby. This is for good reason as this species’ rapid reproductive rate, outstanding nutritional profile and diverse diet make it perfect for seeding both new and aged aquariums. When it comes to Tisbe and Reefs, one cannot go wrong. Copepods act as the vital translator between microbial and animal nutrition. Lipids, amino acids, pigments, sugars and other essential nutritious elements all derive from photosynthetic organisms (phytoplankton, photosynthetic bacteria, macroalgae etc.). Copepods are adept at concentrating this nutrition by grazing on these various microbes. Some copepods, such as the pelagic calanoids (Parvocalanus, Pseudodiaptomus) are specifically adapted to strictly open-water life styles, only preying on live microalgae cells. Other copepods are far more cosmopolitan in their diet, and are able to graze on a meride of prey items ranging from live microalgae, to bacteria biofilms, to detritus, to formulated powdered feeds. Tisbe biminiensis is such a copepod of universal hunger. Tisbe biminiensis is a harpacticoid copepod in the family Tisbidae. The species is tropical in origin, yet is so ubiquitous it may be difficult to discern a specific range. They survive in both oceanic and estuarine environments and rarely seem to survive below 20ppt. Like other harpacticoids, Tisbe are defined by a free-swimming larval stage (nauplii) eventually metamorphosing into a ‘crawling’ adult copepod. The adult Tisbe spends the majority of its time on substrate but will make periodic suarez into open water through a ‘scooting’ locomotion. After mating, females will develop a large egg sac, almost equal to her own body size, composed of several dozen eggs. The egg sac will be larger and more pigmented as females age and/or receive better nutrition. Eggs hatch into nauplii of about (50-75um) in size which metamorphose into a series of adolescent copepodite instars until eventually becoming full grown adults of around (500-750um) in size. Tisbe biminiensis copepods become sexually mature at (5-8) days and can reproduce several times in their (2-4) week life span. Tisbe copepods have a ‘boom and bust’ life cycle characterized by rapid reproduction followed by acute collapse if the population is not controlled by grazing or can expand to new habitat. Tisbe Copepods as Micro cleanup Crew in the Reef Aquarium Harpacticoid copepods act as the vital translator of lost nutrition. Wastes of all varieties (uneaten feed, feces, mucus etc.) accrue into the collective detritus. In both wild and aquarium ecosystems, detritus is a largely inaccessible treasure trove of amino acids, fatty acids, vitamins, minerals and probiotics. Both the morphology and behavior of Tisbe copepods have evolved to seek out and utilize such lost nutrition. Tisbe biminiensis is a generalist grazer, possessing specialized mandibles for the consumption of bacterial and microalgal biofilms. Such microorganisms directly utilize inorganic detritus and grow rapidly into complexes, which on-mass, visually dirty the glass and rockwork of aquariums. Pest diatom biofilms have a particular appeal to harpacticoid copepod species due to their likely elevated level of pigments and Golden Fats (ARA/EPA/DHA). Adult Tisbe biminiensis occupy the various substrates where these unattractive biofilms accrue and microscopically scrape these surfaces. Furthermore, adult Tisbe copepods are negatively phototactic, meaning they impulsively flee the light. This means that Tisbe copepods prefer to live in the deepest, darkest crevices where detritus accrues…in the aquarium, this is likely the live rock, mechanical filtration and greater sump. This species will reproduce rapidly in any environment which is remotely favorable, creating a surplus population to colonize and clean new areas of detritus. This collective grazing has an added benefit in these detritus-prone regions as it allows for increased flow and oxygenation…which may promote more favorable microbial communities and reduce future buildup of wastes. This is why harpacticoid copepods are often referred to as an essential micro cleanup crew of reef aquariums. Pod with Golden Guts The gastrointestinal infrastructure and microbiome is where the Tisbe jewel sources its sparkle. This species is able to dramatically improve the quality of food received in its diet. The magic behind this are enzymes which are able to elongate and desaturate fatty acids. This means that this species can and will survive and thrive off a variety of inferior food items ranging in nutritional value from detritus to baker’s yeast. They are then capable of converting the lesser fats in their forage into Golden Fats (PUFAs), more suitable for consumption by fish and corals. This is essential for being able to recuperate and recycle waste lipids back into nutritious live feed. Tisbe copepods are also more than capable of utilizing premium quality food items such as powdered coral feeds and live microalgae. When they receive good nutrition from the start, Tisbe copepods exhibit pleasant hallmarks such as enhanced fatty acid profile, accelerated growth, larger adult size, greater pigmentation. Alejos Cabrera et al. 2022 observed over 50% retention of dietary PUFAs (ARA, EPA, DHA) in Tisbe biminiensis fed a diet of live Tisochrysis lutea microalgae. Golden Fats are an important but not isolated aspect to the nutritional potential of this species. The gut of Tisbe biminiensis contains many important elements including enzymes, proteases and probiotics…all of which remain stable and intact until they are bestowed upon the fish or coral lucky enough to consume a Tisbe copepod. Tisbe Copepods as Functional Fish Food As localized populations of Tisbe biminiensis copepods increase over time, new generations will be forced into less and less favorable habitat. This is when mass amounts of adult Tisbe copepods will likely be seen on the glass and in other highly illuminated parts of the aquarium. Copepods in these zones are feasting upon photosynthetic biofilms which are likely of a significantly higher nutritional value than unilluminated detritus. Better yet, individual copepods in these areas are highly available to fish. Many species of reef fish such as dragonets (Callionymidae), seahorses (Sygnathidae), and anthias (Anthiinae), are especially adapted to forage for copepods. Such species are defined by a fast metabolism and small cardiac stomach…meaning they display a strong preference for small, live prey offered continuously rather than in large, period feedings. For instance, a single adult mandarin dragonet (Synchiropus splendidus) can consume hundreds to thousands of copepods in a 24 to 72 hour period. It is therefore favorable to have sustained populations of Tisbe copepods colonizing the rockwork, refugium and filtration of a reef aquarium, so that there is a continuous surplus population which becomes discharged into the main tank display. Because Tisbe biminiensis copepods are able to utilize organic detritus as well as algae/bacterial biofilms as a food source, they truly function as a sustainable fish food. Organics and organisms that would be a pest/chemical liability in excess can become recuperated and recycled in the form of highly nutritious microcrustaceans. Because of their robust gastrointestinal system and microbiome, Tisbe biminiensis is a functional live feed rich in essential amino acids, golden lipids, proteases, enzymes, bioactive vitamins, minerals and probiotics. As long as there are supple Tisbe copepods available, small-mouthed fish will never starve. Tisbe Copepods As Food for Corals, Anemones & Jellyfish Tisbe copepods are also invaluable food for a wide range of zooplankton-feeding invertebrates. It is the early nauplii stage which is most valuable as a feed for corals and anemones. Nauplii are free-swimming and can be continuously produced thousand-fold by a robust adult population. Adult Tisbe copepods can also be subject to coral grazing, especially during a ‘feed period’ when pumps are temporarily ceased and coral food (powdered, live microalgae, amino acids) is broadcast or target fed. Adult Tisbe copepods are likely to be attracted to any added coral feeds and will congregate around corals at such times. Feeding high densities of Tisbe copepods from an external culture benefits photosynthetic coral species which are currently very limited in the hobby. There are many potential applications for this species in the husbandry of various jellyfish species. The circular chrysal-style aquariums used to house many pelagic jellyfish species are often difficult to clean with conventional scrapers. It is therefore highly invaluable to have a dense population of Tisbe pods to reduce accumulation of the exhibit’s unsightly algae/bacterial biofilms, while at the same time, being grazed upon by its jellyfish residents. Utilizing Tisbe, and other copepod species, as a live feed will allow for both the public and private aquarist to have access to a much greater assortment of novel display species. Tisbe Copepods in Greater Global Aquaculture There is a growing appreciation of Tisbe copepods for improving the production in commercial aquaculture hatcheries. Tisbe has many advantages over conventional live feed species such as rotifers (Brachionus sp.) and Artemia sp. Firstly, they effectively cover the sixe needs for both of the former, as Tisbe nauplii are comparable in size to even SS rotifers (Brachionus rotundiformis), while adult copepods are the same useful size as newly hatched Artemia franciscana nauplii. Secondly, aquacultured copepods have far less risk of bacterial contamination than dehydrated Artemia cysts, which often arrive coated in Vibrio sp. Spores. Thirdly, Tisbe biminiensis cannot prey on fish/invertebrate larvae even as an adult, unlike adult Artemia. Fourthly, copepods have a far better nutritional profile, having the ability to retain far higher concentrations of the Golden Fats ARA, EPA and DHA. Furthermore, these fats are biocontextualized by an array of copepod enzymes, prebiotics and probiotics. With these advantages in mind, it is no wonder that Tisbe copepods are becoming growingly embraced by commercial marine aquaculture of all kinds. Kahan et al 1982 used Tisbe biminiensis nauplii and adults as an effective feed for Gilthead Seabream larvae (Sparus aurata), an important food fish species in the Mediterranean. Heath et al 1997 used Tisbe copepods to supplement Artemia nauplii in the feeding of Dover Sole (Solea solea) larvae, observing better growth, survival and pigmentation. Similar findings were observed in larviculture experiments of Turbot (Scopthalamus maximus) as well as various Dab species (Limanada sp.). da Lima et al 2013 used Tisbe copepods to rear the larvae of Cobia (Rachycentron canadum), though noted that success was dependent on dietary enrichment of the copepods with microalgae. There is also a host of growing evidence that Tisbe biminiensis can be applied to penaeid shrimp farming. Lima et al 2011 noted that the larvae of Pacific White-Legged Shrimp (Litopaneus vannamei) could be successfully fed Tisbe biminiensis nauplii and copepodites. In this study, reduced Vibrio contamination risk was cited as a major advantage of copepod use. The same author proposed the potential of mass-scale Tisbe biminiensis production in salt evaporation ponds traditionally used to cultivate Artemia. Tisbe Copepods in Advancing a Sustainable Reef Aquarium Industry Just as it has great potential to enhance the aquaculture of food fish and invertebrates, Tisbe copepods are also actively accelerating the sustainable aquaculture of several reef aquarium species. Olivotto et al 2008 observed marked improvement in the hatchery production (in terms of growth and survival) of Clark’s Anemonefish (Amphiprion clarkii) larvae fed Tisbe biminiensis and rotifers versus rotifers alone. Perhaps no realm of aquaculture has embraced copepods as live feed more than seahorse breeders. Tisbe copepods have been directly applied to the large-scale cultivation of species such as the Slender Seahorse (Hippocampus reidi). Souza-Santos et al 2013 observed strong preferential grazing in H. reidi larvae for Tisbe biminiensis nauplii and rotifers (Brachionus plicatilis) over the nauplii of Artemia salina. There are likely thousands of reef organism larvae which can be fed enriched Tisbe nauplii…making this copepod species an incredibly invaluable tool for advancing the sustainable aquaculture of these organisms for the enjoyment of the Reef Aquarium Industry. When it comes to the copepod Tisbe biminiensis, there is more than one reason to praise and appreciate this jewel of the reef underground. In external cultures it can be raised at ridiculous densities (200+ individuals/ml!) at a rapid rate. This has made it an invaluable tool for advancing aquaculture both for food security and for the aquarium industry. Because of the ‘crawling’ behavior of this copepod, it is able to survive, thrive and persist in newly cycling or well aged reef aquariums. In both, this species performs profound ecological services, acting as a micro cleanup crew all the while supplying fish, corals and invertebrates with premium microcrustacean live feed. Cleverly applied, Tisbe copepods can be used to introduce a new wave of zooplankton-eating organisms into the hobby. Tough, nutritious and at the service–this is a copepod of the people. When it comes to Tisbe and Reefs, one cannot go wrong. Alejos Cabrera, R. M., Gaspar Reyes, W. A., Flores Ramos, L., Ynga Huaman, G. A., Ruiz Soto, A., & Nino Velasquez, A. F. (2022). Effect of time in culture on fatty acid composition of copepods Tisbe sp. and Apocyclops sp. Journal of the World Aquaculture Society, 53(2), 475-484. Ananth, S., & Santhanam, P. (2019). Intensive Culture, Biochemical Composition Analysis, and Use of Zooplankton Tisbe sp.(Copepoda: Harpacticoida) as an Alternative Live Feed for Shrimp Larviculture. In Basic and Applied Zooplankton Biology (pp. 329-362). Springer, Singapore. Araújo-Castro, C. M. V., & Souza-Santos, L. P. (2005). Are the diatoms Navicula sp. and Thalassiosira fluviatilis suitable to be fed to the benthic harpacticoid copepod Tisbe biminiensis?. Journal of experimental marine biology and ecology, 327(1), 58-69. Arndt, C., & Sommer, U. (2014). Effect of algal species and concentration on development and fatty acid composition of two harpacticoid copepods, T isbe sp. and T achidius discipes, and a discussion about their suitability for marine fish larvae. Aquaculture Nutrition, 20(1), 44-59. França, R. C., Amaral, I. P., Santana, W. M., Souza-Santos, L. P., Carvalho Jr, L. B., & Bezerra, R. S. (2010). Proteases from the harpacticoid copepod Tisbe biminiensis: comparative study with enzymes from farmed aquatic animals. Journal of Crustacean Biology, 30(1), 122-128. Heath, P. L., & Moore, C. G. (1997). Rearing dover sole larvae onTisbe andArtemia diets. Aquaculture International, 5(1), 29-39. Kahan, D., Uhlig, G., Schwenzer, D., & Horowitz, L. (1982). A simple method for cultivating harpacticoid copepods and offering them to fish larvae. Aquaculture, 26(3-4), 303-310. de Lima, L. C., & Souza-Santos, L. P. (2007). The ingestion rate of Litopenaeus vannamei larvae as a function of Tisbe biminiensis copepod concentration. Aquaculture, 271(1-4), 411-419. Lima, L. C., & Souza-Santos, L. P. (2011). Growth of the brine shrimp Artemia fed on offspring of the copepod Tisbe biminiensis Volkmann-Rocco, 1973. Revista Brasileira de Engenharia de Pesca, 6(1), 48-55. de Lima, L. C. M. (2011). Use of Harpacticoid copepods in aquaculture. de Lima, L. C., Navarro, D. M., & Souza-Santos, L. P. (2013). Effect of diet on the fatty acid composition of the copepod Tisbe biminiensis. Journal of crustacean biology, 33(3), 372-381. Lin, Q., Tian, J., Yang, W., Li, M., Hu, W., Shao, J., ... & Wang, K. (2017). Yeast and corn flour supplement to enhance large-scale culture efficiency of marine copepod Tisbe furcata, a potential live food for fish larvae. Israeli Journal of Aquaculture-Bamidgeh, 69, 20892. Ma, X., & Johnson, K. B. (2017). Comparative phototaxis of calanoid and harpacticoid copepods. Marine biology, 164(1), 1-13. Mélo, R. C. S., Santos, L. P. D. S., Brito, A. P. M., Gouveia, A. D. A., Marçal, C., & Cavalli, R. O. (2016). Use of the microalga Nannochloropsis occulata in the rearing of newborn longsnout seahorse Hippocampus reidi (Syngnathidae) juveniles. Aquaculture Research, 47(12), 3934-3941. Miliou, H., Moraitou-Apostolopoulou, M., & Argyridou, M. (1992). Biochemical composition of Tisbe holothuriae (Copepoda: Harpacticoida) and its differentiation in relation to developmental stages. Ophelia, 36(2), 159-166. Nanton, D. A., & Castell, J. D. (1998). The effects of dietary fatty acids on the fatty acid composition of the harpacticoid copepod, Tisbe sp., for use as a live food for marine fish larvae. Aquaculture, 163(3-4), 251-261. Olivotto, I., Avella, M. A., Sampaolesi, G., Piccinetti, C. C., Ruiz, P. N., & Carnevali, O. (2008). Breeding and rearing the longsnout seahorse Hippocampus reidi: rearing and feeding studies. Aquaculture, 283(1-4), 92-96. Olivotto, I., Capriotti, F., Buttino, I., Avella, A. M., Vitiello, V., Maradonna, F., & Carnevali, O. (2008). The use of harpacticoid copepods as live prey for Amphiprion clarkii larviculture: effects on larval survival and growth. Aquaculture, 274(2-4), 347-352. Pinto, C. S., Souza-Santos, L. P., & Santos, P. J. P. (2001). Development and population dynamics of Tisbe biminiensis (Copepoda: Harpacticoida) reared on different diets. Aquaculture, 198(3-4), 253-267. Puello-Cruz, A. C., González-Rodríguez, B., García-Ortega, A., & Gómez, S. (2004). Use of a tropical harpacticoid copepod Tisbe monozota Bowman, 1962 (Copepoda: Harpacticoida: Tisbidae) as live food in marine larviculture. Contributions to the study of East Pacific Crustaceans, 3, 177-187. Ribeiro, A. C., & Souza-Santos, L. P. (2011). Mass culture and offspring production of marine harpacticoid copepod Tisbe biminiensis. Aquaculture, 321(3-4), 280-288. Ribeiro, A. C., & Souza-Santos, L. P. (2013). Mass culture of the harpacticoid copepod tisbe biminiensis fed inert diets. Blue Biotechnology Journal, 2(4), 583. Sales, R., Mélo, R. C. S., de Moraes Junior, R. M., da Silva, R. C. S., Cavalli, R. O., Navarro, D. M. D. A. F., & de Souza Santos, L. P. (2016). Production and use of a flocculated paste of Nannochloropsis oculata for rearing newborn seahorse Hippocampus reidi. Algal Research, 17, 142-149. Silva, R., Vinagre, C., Kitahara, M. V., Acorsi, I. V., Mizrahi, D., & Flores, A. A. (2019). Sun coral invasion of shallow rocky reefs: effects on mobile invertebrate assemblages in Southeastern Brazil. Biological Invasions, 21(4), 1339-1350. Souza‐Santos, L. P., Pastor, J. M., Ferreira, N. G., Costa, W. M., Araújo‐Castro, C. M., & Santos, P. J. (2006). Developing the harpacticoid copepod Tisbe biminiensis culture: testing for salinity tolerance, ration levels, presence of sediment and density dependent analyses. Aquaculture Research, 37(15), 1516-1523. Souza-Santos, L. P., Regis, C. G., Mélo, R. C., & Cavalli, R. O. (2013). Prey selection of juvenile seahorse Hippocampus reidi. Aquaculture, 404, 35-40. Støttrup, J. G., & Norsker, N. H. (1997). Production and use of copepods in marine fish larviculture. Aquaculture, 155(1-4), 231-247. Støttrup, J. G. (2000). The elusive copepods: their production and suitability in marine aquaculture. Aquaculture Research, 31(8‐9), 703-711. Willadino, L., Souza-Santos, L. P., Mélo, R. C., Brito, A. P., Barros, N. C., Araújo-Castro, C. M., ... & Cavalli, R. O. (2012). Ingestion rate, survival and growth of newly released seahorse Hippocampus reidi fed exclusively on cultured live food items. Aquaculture, 360, 10-16.
Santuario Nuestra Señora de las Lajas Church history from Viva Travel One day in 1750 (more or less), María Mueses de Quiñónez was walking from Potosí to Ipiales. Upon her back she carried her young, deaf-mute daughter Rosa. They decided to rest at Pastarán cave on the banks of the Río Guáitra. When doña María awoke from a nap, she discovered her daughter had wandered off. Upon finding her, Rosa said, “Mamacita, the Mestiza called to me!” She pointed to an image of a woman holding a child and two men. Thus begins the story of Santuario Nuestra Señora de las Lajas.A small adobe chapel was built to protect the image of the Virgin in the shallow cave, forming the “altar screen” of the temple. Over the centuries it expanded to the impressive neo-Gothic structure that now spans the Guáitra River. Many Colombians and Ecuadorians make the pilgrimage to this site, beseeching the Virgin Mary for her intercession. The cliff walls are covered with thousands of plaques thanking her for miracles. (The Vatican only recognizes one.)
The hen harrier in England could soon become extinct, with its survival haging by athread, warn conservationists. Figures show just seven pairs of the bird of prey had nested successfully this year. According to an annual survey, only 12 pairs attempted to nest, while the number of pairs successfully raising chicks to fledging, seven, was just one more than last year. Three years ago, the number was 14. The Royal Society for the Protection of Birds calculates there is sufficient habitat for 300 pairs in England, but that persecution of hen harriers remains "devastatingly common" despite the birds having full legal protection. Of the successful pairs, five nested on the United Utilities estate in the Forest of Bowland in Lancashire, the remaining stronghold of the bird in England. Dr Mark Avery, the society's director of conservation, said: "Persecution, associated with land managed for driven-grouse shooting, remains the main reason for the hundreds of missing pairs. "Even though these birds now have the full protection of the law, the persecution of birds of prey remains devastatingly common." And he said: "Now that the future of the hen harrier in England hangs by a thread, we now need to consider all measures necessary to prevent the extinction of this bird in our uplands." Hen harriers come into conflict with upland grouse shoots as they eat the game birds. The RSPB is calling on the Government to address the problem of illegal persecution, and as a first step wants the coalition to confirm that the future of the National Wildlife Crime Unit is secure. Dr Avery said: "It is shocking that protected birds of prey are still being killed illegally in the UK. "In this International Year of Biodiversity, we challenge the coalition government to provide the leadership and political will necessary to address the problem and reiterate our challenge to moorland owners and managers to allow hen harriers to settle and breed."
The Speech: The Story Behind Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.’s Dream Monday, November 18, 2013 - 7:00pm Please join us at Shepherd University for a lecture and discussion by Gary Younge on the topic of the American values and ideals given expression in the famous "I Have a Dream" speech of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., drawing on the subject of his most recent book, The Speech: The Story behind Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.’s Dream (2013). Sponsored by The George Washington Institute of Living Ethics * * * It was a sweltering eighty-seven degrees when Martin Luther King Jr. took the stage at the Lincoln Memorial in 1963. He was the final speaker after a long day. The crowd, which numbered in the tens of thousands, had begun to leave. King took a deep breath and threw back his shoulders. ‘I say to you today, my friends, so even though we face the difficulties of today and tomorrow, I still have a dream.'—From the Introduction Martin Luther King Jr. delivered his powerful “I Have a Dream Speech” on August 28, 1963. Fifty years later, the speech endures as a defining moment in the civil rights movement. It continues to be heralded as a beacon in the ongoing struggle for racial equality. This gripping book unearths the fascinating chronicle behind “The Speech” and the revealing events surrounding the March on Washington.
From ABC News' Chief Medical Editor Dr. Timothy Johnson: Today's issue of the Journal of the American Medical Association (JAMA) contains two articles ? and an excellent editorial ? addressing the question of whether the benefits of the Gardasil vaccine outweigh its risks. The vaccine is designed to prevent infection by two strains of the HPV (Human Papilloma Virus); these strains are said to account for about 70% of cervical cancer cases. The vaccine is now recommended for 11-12 year old girls before they become sexually active. For the first time in my career, I cannot recommend a vaccine for its intended population ? in this case, young girls. Therefore I am going to say that any parent considering this vaccine for their daughter should read the editorial in JAMA and then talk to their doctor before deciding. "The theory behind the vaccine is sound: If HPV infection can be prevented, cancer will not occur. But in practice, the issue is more complex. First, there are more than 100 different types of HPV and at least 15 of them are oncogenic. The current vaccines target only 2 oncongenic strains: HPV-16 and HPV-18. Second, the relationship between infection at a young age and development of cancer 20 to 40 years later is not known. HPV is the most prevalent sexually transmitted infection, with an estimated 79% infection rate over a lifetime. The virus does not appear to be very harmful because almost all HPV infections are cleared by the immune system. In a few women, infection persists and some women may develop precancerous cervical lesions and eventually cervical cancer. It is currently impossible to predict in which women this will occur and why. Likewise, it is impossible to predict exactly what effect vaccination of young girls and women will have on the incidence of cervical cancer 20 to 40 years from now. The true effect of the vaccine can be determined only through clinical trials and long-term follow-up."
Know more about the Product Digital Thermometer. Thermometers are probably one of the most important tools in cooking and baking. In restaurants, fine dinings, or a pastry shop, cooks and bakers are alike. For them to be able to cook or bake probably, they must know the current temperature of the food or liquid substance that they are about to use or serve. - Measuring Range -58F- 572F (-50C- 300C) - Display Resolution +-0.1 - Measuring Accuracy +-1 degree at temperature from -4F- 392F (-20C- 200C). +-2 degrees at other temperatures - Talking and LED night function - Auto Shut Off - Reads Temperature in 4 Seconds - Talking and LED Display: - A tool that can broadcast the current temperature of your food to voice. - LED lit display. - Fast Reading Thermometer: - Reads temperature in 4 seconds. - Auto shut off function. - The temperature can be viewed at Fahrenheit or Celsius. - Wide Temperature Range: - Measuring Range from -58F TO 572F (-50C- 300C). - With just +/- 1 degree deviation at temperatures from 4F- 392F (20C- 200C) - +-2 degrees at other temperatures Digital Instant Read Thermometer If you’re into cooking or baking or both, there’s a high possibility that you have used a traditional temperature measuring tools such as the classic cooking thermometer. These classic temperature measuring tools usually take about 20 to 30 seconds of holding it steady to get the right temperature of either your food or a liquid substance. With the Surround Point Digital Thermometer, you can get an almost 100% accurate temperature reading in just 4 seconds with +/- 1-degree deviation at temperatures from 4F- 392F (20C- 200C). It’s quite easy to use too. With its long stainless steel sharp probe, you can easily slide it into any kind of meat. This digital temperature measuring tool also comes with a speaker that tells you the temperature reading. Making it an ideal cook tool thermometer for people who are visually impaired. Furthermore, its small compact and user-friendly design make it a space-saving tool and operatable by anyone. Other Ideal Uses This tool is also great for other uses. Keep your chocolate fondue melted and delicious at the right temperature with this tool. Furthermore, make pastries or desserts without compromising the taste because of temperature misreading. Setting The Right Temperature For Baby Bath We all know that bathing babies are not like any ordinary bath. Babies are sensitive to temperatures, they have a lot of difficulties regulating their base temperature, which is around 37°- 37.5°C. They are very sensitive to variations in temperature, whether cold or hot. That is why it’s important to make sure that their bath time will be comfortable for them. With this tool, you can easily make sure that the bathwater is comfortably warm but not hot before putting your baby in. Water that’s warmed to about 37 degrees C (98.6 degrees F) is just right. Our Verdict – Surround Point Digital Thermometer Overall, the Surround Point Digital Thermometer is a great tool for measuring temperature as fast as possible without compromising accuracy and precision. What makes this tool great is its fast temperature reading, its capable of telling you the temperature via display or voice, and its compact and user-friendly design. However, the downside of this tool is the use of batter. Unlike traditional thermometers that work without the need for electricity or battery, this thermometer requires a battery to operate. It’s also not waterproof so that’s one thing to note of when using this tool. You can also try ThermoPro TP20 Wireless Remote Digital Cooking Food Meat Thermometer it has features of probe and wire can withstand up to 716°F (380°C), timer and temperature settings, and splash-proof receiver.
- What is Flooding in Great Britain? - How Floods in Great Britain Affect People, Wildlife and the Environment - Navigating Flooding in Great Britain Step-by-Step: What You Need to Know Today - Frequently Asked Questions About Flooding in Great Britain: Your Ultimate Guide - Top 5 Facts You Should Know About Flooding in Great Britain - Human Intervention and Climate Change: Examining the Causes of Frequent Flooding in Great Britain - Dealing with the Aftermath of Flooding in Great Britain: Recovery, Aid and Support Services Available - Table with useful data: - Information from an Expert - Historical fact: What is Flooding in Great Britain? Flooding in great britain is an event where water overflows onto land that is normally dry causing damage to property, infrastructure and sometimes loss of life. Areas vulnerable to flooding include low-lying regions surrounding rivers, coasts or areas without adequate drainage systems. Some must-know facts about flooding in Great Britain are: 1. The UK has a long history of experiencing some of the most severe floods with almost 5 million people living at risk of flooding. 2. Climate change and increased rainfall intensity have led experts to predict that flood risks may increase further across many parts of the country. 3. Flood warnings can be issued by the Environment Agency who monitor river levels regularly through gauges installed at various locations throughout the UK coastline. Using a paragraph works well for this featured snippet as it succinctly summarizes what flooding in Great Britain means while also providing vital information on why and how it happens. Adding specific data such as those provided creates more interest around its effect giving audiences looking for general Information reason not just awareness but also perspectives they probably haven’t thought about before concerning severe weather patterns like these one resulting from climate change . How Floods in Great Britain Affect People, Wildlife and the Environment Floods are natural disasters that impact not only people but also the environment and wildlife. The United Kingdom, specifically Great Britain, has been no stranger to floods in recent years. These catastrophic events have disrupted life for both humans and animals alike, and have caused significant damage to the natural ecosystem. Firstly, let’s start with how floods affect people in Great Britain. Whether it be homes, businesses or infrastructure; flooding can cause a great deal of destruction leading to financial as well as emotional loss for those affected by it. Homes get submerged underwater leading to dampness which causes mold growth and other health hazards impacting individuals living there long-term resulting in either an expensive renovation process or moving out altogether. Flooded roads lead to traffic chaos causing inconvenience leaving travelers stranded without any means of transportation which may result in delayed work or school commitments affecting them indirectly too. Not only does this disrupt daily lives but also tourism is negatively impacted due to closed attractions during the high season making an adverse economic effect on small towns dependent upon tourist trade. Furthermore, food suppliers lose crops resulting from excess water that impacts agricultural production posing further problems both for farmers and citizens’ nutrition supply chain. Now let’s discuss how flood affects Wildlife: When extreme weather conditions amplify such calamities like overflowing rivers habitats are destroyed forcing land-based species most at risk including deer populations seeking safety while drowning risks aquatic inhabitants like fish who need a specific level of oxygen concentration within their habitat force them to shift location sometimes triggering migrating movements threatening some delicate ecosystems’ survival dependant primarily on balance stimulating dangerous advantages through predators being driven outside their usual hunting ground. Furthermore, floods prompt soil erosion weakening many indigenous trees whose roots corrode as they cannot access adequate support required under more stable soil-less entrenchment risking extinction of certain animal species suffering from scarce breeding opportunities along with limited shelter involving death rates piling up- thus slow-paced repopulation difficult given less opportunity area available following rampant flooding repercussions. Finally, let’s consider how floods impact the environment: The aftermath of a flood event can have long-term effects on environmental health. Water pollution levels rise due to an influx of industrial and agricultural waste products unable to be processed by sewage systems leading to unsanitary conditions-and requiring consolidation into suitable tech hence becoming more environmentally friendly for future use. This impacts aquatic biodiversity, flora communities and discharges toxins causing mishaps in humans suffering from deadly diseases ultimately impacting overall ecosystems’ delicate balance which may lead some species susceptible intolerable exposure living within such contaminated waters. Additionally, prevailing flood disruptions increase greenhouse gases forcing several countries including GBR looking at innovation renewable energy options as natural resources slowly erode making most vulnerable threatened by climate change measurements noted globally prompting aggressive green-tech opportunities with alternative sources powering rural towns lacking power lines exponentially increasing safety measures through clean-energy adaptation suggesting realizations following concerning matters about global warming disrupting otherwise balanced ecology surrounding Great Britain- highlighting moving towards sustainable solutions becomes paramount importance soon rather than later! In conclusion, Floods significantly impact people’s livelihoods; animals lose habitat diversity whilst ecosystems suffer under pollution damaging all species’ viability consequently evolved over many years sustaining healthy practices. Therefore emphasis upon working together urgently would afford feasible innovations creating higher community continuity prosperity supporting more dignified approaches undoubtedly vital stepping stones securing prosperous earth awaiting mankind boldly taking modern trends advancing evolution forward! Navigating Flooding in Great Britain Step-by-Step: What You Need to Know Today Flooding has become increasingly common in Great Britain with climate change and a rapidly growing population. The effects of flooding can be devastating, from loss of life to property damage and disruption of daily activities. However, navigating flooding doesn’t need to feel overwhelming or chaotic. There are plenty of steps you can take today to mitigate the impact of floods. Secondly, you should consider safeguarding your home before a flood occurs. This could include installing water-resistant doors and windows which minimise the amount of water entering a building during a flood plus making use sandbags around doors that might let crawl spaces fill up quickly with water etc. If you live in an area prone to frequent flooding, it’s worth investing in flood insurance policy which ensures compensation if any destruction is caused due to unforeseen circumstances. Always make sure that your possessions and valuables are properly insured too!. Thirdly, create an emergency kit made up survival supplies including high nutrition food items stored safely away from potential Flooding Areas thus allowing easy access provided this package includes basic medical necessities like band-aids Gauze And alcohol wipes along with other essential day-to-day essentials like phone chargers and batteries Fourthly, know evacuation routes out of danger zones especially flash-flood-prone areas while recording key contacts related organisations i.e government agencies as well as family members who may aid rescue operations all Furthermore so always be vigilant since Floods occur at irregular times – not just after rainstorms! Finally note: It’s also advisable never drive through flooded roads since visibility isn’t perfect in them causing even minor pools filled by heavy rains full setbacks once vehicles submerge – this could put yours-mine-ours lives at higher risk! In conclusion, with good planning and foresight, navigating flooding in Great Britain doesn’t have to be a difficult task filled with overwhelming panic and confusion. By taking practical measures such as staying informed about flood warnings issued by relevant authorities or safeguarding your property against the worst-case scenario floods you can effectively manage potential disaster situations. After all – preparation is key when it comes down to safeguarding resources , valuables && human lives alike ensuring survival during inevitable natural disasters like flooding that occur worldwide regularly. Frequently Asked Questions About Flooding in Great Britain: Your Ultimate Guide Flooding in Great Britain can be a major concern for many people, particularly during the winter months when heavy rainfall and snowmelt can cause rivers to overflow their banks. Given the increased frequency of severe weather events attributed to global warming, it’s important to educate yourself about flooding should you find yourself at risk. In this ultimate guide, we’re going to answer some frequently asked questions about flooding in Great Britain so that you stay safe and well-informed! Q: What is flooding? Flooding occurs when water overflows onto land that is usually dry. This can happen when there has been heavy rain or fast melting snow which causes rivers, lakes or other bodies of water to rise above their normal levels. Flooding can also occur as a result of human activities such as blocking natural drainage paths with buildings, roads or litter. Q: How common is flooding in Great Britain? Great Britain experiences frequent episodes of flooding due to its geography and climate. Winter storms often bring extreme weather conditions causing widespread damage across large areas from Scotland down through England’s West Country and Wales. Q: Where are the most flood-prone areas in Great Britain? The Environment Agency specifies more than 5 million homes and businesses are situated within postcodes deemed ‘high-risk’: on top of that 3 million more properties are expected to come under threat with the upcoming decade if urgent action isn’t taken against Climate Change–so no one area stands out above another although low-lying river valleys tend overall have higher exposure compared with upland landscapes where morphologies would naturally discourage settlement. Q: Can I protect my property from flooding? There are several steps you can take before floods arrive: -Investing into flood barriers Make sure vulnerable objects like power sockets and carpets aren’t too close to floors prone suddenly arriving right inside your house; try taking less irreplaceable items upstairs first followed by heavier appliances then abandoning your gas and electric supplies. It’s also wise keep foodstuffs out of lower cupboards or you run the risk of cross-contaminating produce. Q: What should I do during a flood? It’s important not to panic, but have an emergency plan in place before floods arrive so that everyone knows what they need if disaster strikes! If it’s safe to do so, move valuable items upstairs or take them with you when evacuating your home/family vehicle away from waterlogged danger zones–make sure gas/electric services are switched off first though! Most importantly, stay tuned into any updates from emergency situations happening real-time information via established regional news outlets- likely repeated on social media; local authorities’ accounts on Facebook/Twitter will provide options for force assistance. A quick recap: Flooding can devastate lives and livelihoods alike as well as cause distressing upheavals within neighbourhood areas. So we know preventing flooding is unlikely under circumstances where nature collides with anthropocentric factors. Preparedness may lessen negative effects. Keep track of weather advisory alerts and educate yourself properly in how best to react- this way there’ll be less uncertainty when those warnings ring true.. The next time there is severe weather heading our way, make sure you’re prepared! Stay vigilant folks! Top 5 Facts You Should Know About Flooding in Great Britain Flooding in Great Britain is a serious issue that should not be taken lightly. Every year, numerous parts of the country experience devastating effects due to excessive rainfall, tidal surges or any other factors which may cause water levels to rise beyond their capacity. Here are 5 significant facts you need to know about flooding in Great Britain: 1. Flooding has become more frequent and severe: Climate change is one of the biggest reasons behind the increased frequency and severity of floods in Great Britain. With climate reports suggesting increases in heavy rainfall over certain regions, it’s no wonder why we see news headlines warning residents about potential flood threats on an almost weekly basis. 2. The economic impact can be colossal: Aside from causing personal devastation for those directly affected by floods, they can also have a huge impact on local businesses and economies as well. Insurance premiums skyrocket following every major flooding event; roads and infrastructure are damaged leading to costly repairs, and tourism industries often suffer severely. 3. Your home insurance policy does not necessarily cover flood damage: Many homeowners falsely believe that their regular home insurance policies provide sufficient coverage against flood damages but this isn’t always true. Specialised “flood insurance” must typically be purchased separately or bundled into your existing plan at an additional cost if you want comprehensive protection against potential water-related disasters within your property. 4. You don’t need to live near a river or coastline to be at risk: Although many image floods being caused only by rivers bursting their banks or coastal areas being battered by stormy seas, flooding can happen anywhere – even miles away from any body of water! Blocked drainage systems (caused by littering habits) faulty plumbing installations could result in water damage owing tens thousands pounds worth repair costs if left unattended – so keep drains clear! 5.Responding promptly through Flood Warnings saves lives: Monitoring updates issued via government channels such as social media platforms will help you to prepare and act accordingly in the event of a potential flood, from how to safely protect yourself during the emergency through life-saving steps you can take immediately until rescue mission team arrives. Speed may truly be critical as even water levels that appear harmless at first glance could suddenly become dangerously high in mere seconds. In conclusion, being aware about flooding situations around Great Britain will help you to plan ahead – which is always beneficial regardless if it spells security against your property or your personal safety & those among whom you love. Keep track of the latest communications by following credible sources but remember: better preparedness provides optimum defence! Human Intervention and Climate Change: Examining the Causes of Frequent Flooding in Great Britain Climate change, as a result of human intervention, has been responsible for numerous natural disasters across the world. In recent times, Great Britain has experienced an increase in flooding incidents which have left many people wondering about the causes of these occurrences. Human action such as deforestation and industrialization contribute greatly to climate change resulting in warmer ocean temperatures that have caused widespread flooding. The increased frequency of hurricanes and typhoons are one of their products leading humanity towards unimaginable floods. Furthermore, modern-day settlements are located on floodplains or coastal areas without due consideration given to risks posed by rising sea levels or water catchment systems built around them specifically because urban development is necessary considering population growth trends within the UK’s territory over decades. This disregard for nature’s inherent cycles leads us towards this unnatural flooding surge happening now. Another common cause of frequent floods in Great Britain is poor drainage infrastructure – our undersized drainage channels cannot cope with heavy rainfall patterns throughout different parts hence increasing the likelihood of flash flooding especially if other preventative measures aren’t deployed beforehand at vulnerable regions including low-lying terrains near flowing rivers rushing through cities/municipal centres alike. In addition, there may be some immediate contributions from anthropogenic factors; waste materials deposited carelessly like plastic bottles widely found outside our homes gradually find their way into gutters blocking flood drains which pose major setbacks during times already ravaged by overflowing streams/rivers until respective agencies complete long-term cleanup drives maybe weeks after all damages incurred per region/situation It’s important therefore not just to make bold statements calling out effects but also acknowledging intentional/harmful actions by humans ourselves that ultimately lead us onto unforeseen routes directly threatening life support systems & properties in general even though we possess knowledge enabling management/prevention mechanisms/actions against avoidable loss upon them happening. To summarize, although it would be impossible to eliminate any chance of natural phenomena like dry spells resulting in droughts or intense precipitation leading to floods, we can keep man-made interferences to a minimum by recognizing these all-important factors in order to limit our impact. By acknowledging the causes of frequent flooding in Great Britain and taking appropriate action where necessary, we can create a safer environment for ourselves, our loved ones and flora/fauna that depend on this rich ecosystem supporting us daily as partakers within it. Dealing with the Aftermath of Flooding in Great Britain: Recovery, Aid and Support Services Available Floods are becoming increasingly common in Great Britain as the country experiences periods of intense rainfall and unpredictable weather patterns. This can leave many people with a sense of vulnerability, stress and despair as their homes become submerged under water. But don’t worry – help is at hand! There are numerous recovery, aid and support services available to those affected by flooding. One of the first things you should do if your home has been flooded is contact your insurer or broker. Most insurance policies cover flood damage but it’s essential that you check this out in order to take advantage of the coverage afforded by your policy. In addition to insurance providers, there are various charities providing aid for victims of flooding such as The British Red Cross and The Salvation Army. Both organisations offer practical assistance along with emotional support during these difficult times. Furthermore, local authorities also provide information and resources for individuals who have been impacted by floods. Informational leaflets regarding flood prevention techniques as well as cleanup operations provides some much-needed guidance on how affected persons can be better prepared next time around (fingers crossed!). If you’re struggling with repairing damage caused by floods then government grants may be worth exploring. Depending upon individual circumstances homeowners may qualify for funding towards repair costs from central government funds administered via Local Authorities across Great Britain. It’s just not humans suffering losses due to frequent flooding – our cute animal friends often get caught up too! RSPCA offers 24 hour advice lines during natural disasters aiming at supervising animal welfare in disaster-hit regions throughout UK including rescuing distressed pets/animals f wild species without owners present! On top of all these different supports those still looking for further assistance might want to look into available volunteer opportunities wherein they could make a real difference at least marginally mitigating threats posed my worsening environmental calamities plaguing UK! When coping with post-flood trauma one shouldn’t shy away from seeking professional help.. Here therapists/counsellors play a pivotal role lending patients years of valuable experience to aid recovery from emotional stress. Finally, various online resources offer support services such as discussion boards for those affected and links to relevant emergency departments offering immediate relief. We hope our brief overview helps you navigate through this difficult time – the bottom line? Don’t lose hope! Help is available if needed! Table with useful data: |Year||Number of Floods||Worst Affected Areas||Estimated Cost| |2019||34||Derbyshire, Yorkshire, Lincolnshire, Nottinghamshire, Gloucestershire||£110 million| |2018||98||Cumbria, Lancashire, Herefordshire, Worcestershire, Suffolk||£1.2 billion| |2017||46||Lincolnshire, Yorkshire, Norfolk, Suffolk||£0.6 billion| |2016||62||Cumbria, Northumberland, Lancashire, Yorkshire||£1.3 billion| Information from an Expert As an expert in the field of flooding, I can attest to the fact that Great Britain has seen a rise in flood incidents over recent years. The causes are multifaceted and include increased urbanization, climate change and more extreme weather events. It’s essential for individuals and communities to take steps towards flood prevention such as investing in appropriate infrastructure or taking measures like planting trees which absorb water. Adapting to changes brought about by these challenges is critical, and only through concerted efforts can we hope to mitigate this growing problem facing many regions throughout the UK. From 1607 to 1930, Great Britain experienced several devastating floods that caused significant damage and loss of life. The most severe of these occurred in January 1607 when floodwaters swept across the Bristol Channel and killed an estimated 2,000 people.
Stabilize and restore the landscape and community following a wildfire event. Post-fire recovery efforts can affect susceptibility. Explore your community’s risk. About Post-Fire Recovery It can take months and even years to recover from the emotional, financial, and ecological impacts of a wildfire. The healing process for a community requires extensive resources and support. Landscape stabilization and rebuilding homes and communities following a wildfire can be stressful and overwhelming. While immediate action is needed to address landscape rehabilitation, infrastructure repairs, post-fire flooding mitigation, and neighborhood restoration, long-term care is required to ensure personal well-being, financial stability, community health, and a renewed sense of place. Pre-fire mitigation steps—such as wildfire preparedness, home hardening, land use planning, and addressing community health and safety—can reduce the work required to recover post-fire. After the Fire: Resources for Recovery The Natural Resources Conservation Service is available to assist with site specific questions and provide technical assistance for landowners as they begin to restore the landscape following a fire. In addition, there may be financial assistance available through regular Environmental Quality Incentives Program or special state initiatives to help address resource concerns on private and tribal land. After the Flames After the Flames is a curated list of post-fire recovery and restoration information. The resources are useful for communities as they work to establish plans and priorities that protect citizens, homes, essential infrastructure, and resources from the destruction that occurs after a catastrophic wildfire. After the Flames is an initiative of Coalitions and Collaboratives, Inc. (COCO). AIM: Action, Implementation & Mitigation The Action, Implementation, and Mitigation Program (AIM) seeks to increase local capacity and support for wildfire risk reduction activities in high risk communities. Selected participants in AIM will receive technical and financial support and become affiliate members of Coalitions and Collaboratives, Inc. (COCO). Burned Area Emergency Response (BAER) Teams The BAER program is designed to address emergency stabilization issues related to wildland fire. The BAER teams perform emergency stabilization actions within one year of wildfire containment. These actions are intended to stabilize and prevent unacceptable degradation to natural and cultural resources, minimize threats to life or property resulting from the effects of a fire, or to repair, replace, or construct physical improvements necessary to prevent degradation of land or resources. Community Mitigation Assistance Team (CMAT) Community Mitigation Assistance Teams are a national interagency resource designed to work collaboratively with local partners to build sustainable mitigation programs focused on community fire adaptation actions on the ground. A CMAT works with communities at high risk of wildfire to analyze their mitigation programs and barriers, develop workable solutions to help move mitigation forward, share best mitigation practices for achieving outcomes, and build successful partnerships. FEMA Hazard Mitigation Grant Program The Federal Emergency Management Administration (FEMA) manages several grant opportunities for wildfire in their Hazard Mitigation Assistance program. The Hazard Mitigation Grant Program Post-Fire provides mitigation assistance for Fire Management Assistance declarations on or after October 5, 2018. Fire Adapted Communities Learning Network The Fire Adapted Communities Learning Network connects and supports people and communities who are striving to live more safely with wildfire. The purpose of FAC Net is to exchange information, collaborate to enhance the practice of fire adaptation, and work together and at multiple scales to help communities live safely with fire. This includes embracing resiliency concepts and taking action before, during and after wildfires. They offer a Fire Adapted Communities Self-Assessment Tool (FAC SAT) to help communities assess their level of fire adaptation and track their capacity to live safely with fire over time NACo County Wildfire Playbook The National Association of Counties (NACo) produced this county leadership guide to help communities become more fire adapted and learn to live with wildland fire. The playbook has been designed by county commissioners, for county commissioners, as they endeavor to fortify and protect communities from high severity impacts of wildland fire. Research & Science - After the Fire. Federal Emergency Management Agency. (2019). Emmitsburg, MD: U.S. Fire Administration. - Burned Area Emergency Response (BAER) Program. (n.d.). USDA Forest Service. - Recovering from the wildfires. (2020). American Psychological Association. - Wildfire recovery as a “hot moment” for creating fire-adapted communities. Schumann RL, Mockrin M, Syphard A, Whittaker J, Price O, Gaither CJ, Emrich CT, & Butsic V. (2020). International Journal of Disaster Risk Reduction, 42. 101354. - Wildfire Recovery: Ways to Move Forward. (2006). Wildfire Recovery, 1(1). Corvallis, OR: Oregon State University Extension Service. Learn how these actions align with federal policies and initiatives.
This process involves primarily "white" fat found mainly in the fat cells that lie under our skin. This is our energy, or calorie storage fat. The "brown" fat, or the "good" fat, actually burns calories for body heat. This fat is deeper and surrounds and protects our organs. Normal fatty acid metabolism supports and nourishes the brown fat. The storage, or white, fat is where our body puts the extra calories from dietary sources that we do not utilize. When we diet regularly or our weight goes up and down, our internal weight control system fears starvation and will store more fat as energy for the future. With repeated weight loss and weight gain, the same number of calories in our diet may keep us at a higher weight because we have a higher set point. When we have developed more fat cells during our growth periods (infancy and adolescence), we will tend to have more fat, a slower metabolism, and a higher set point, and we will be more likely to have a higher weight. Once this pattern develops, such as by being overweight early in life, it is very hard to change. It takes work and a new self-image! Regular exercise and increasing exercise capacity are the main physical ways to improve the set point and lose weight and then to be able to maintain our weight with a reasonable number of calories. This is a far healthier approach than taking thyroid pills or one of the many possible diet stimulants. Other ideas about individual weight suggest two opposing views. One school says that people are thin because they do not overeat as much as fat people, since they are guided more by internal signals of hunger and the types of food that their bodies want. Overweight people on the other hand respond more to external signals, such as the presence of food or other people and social situations, or they may react more emotionally to the normal internal messages. Others believe that obese people do not really eat a great deal more than thin people; they just have a different set point and a slower metabolic rate. Heredity and early conditioning play a major role here. Heavier people’s food choices may not be as wholesome as those of thin people, with higher-fat and higher-calorie foods predominating. Malnutrition from nutrient deficiencies and food allergies can also be influential. Obesity is really a combination of these many factors. Of course, most of us know overweight people who eat a lot of food. Then again, we may know overweight people who eat lightly, as well as trim people who can really put it away. Most overweight people, I believe, have overeaten at some point to develop their capacity for obesity, unless there is some hormonal imbalance, which is not very common. We need to start as early as possible to achieve dietary control. Children need both wholesome, nutritious foods and loving guidance! Only about 10 percent of elementary school children are overweight, yet between 20 and 30 percent of high schoolers are at least moderately obese. To lose weight and maintain it, behavior must change. Behavior modification is a form of therapy that can be effective in helping us change from an overweight person to a trimmer one. This can be practiced by ourselves or with the help of a close friend, spouse, or diet "buddy," but a behavioral or other counselor can often assist with it. An important beginning is to try to get in touch with our level of hunger. Most "fat" people do not eat from hunger; in fact, many rarely experience this natural guide to eating. Using an eating diary to evaluate what, when, and where we eat, how much, our level of hunger, and what else we are doing at the time can be very revealing. An example of this form is found in Taking Charge of Your Weight and Well-Being by Joyce Nash and Linda Ormiston (Bull Publishing Co., Palo Alto, CA., 1978). Keeping such a diary for several weeks can help us to see more clearly our relationship to eating. We can then make a plan incorporating our new, positive habits and use new rules to change our behavior in weak areas. For example, if we snack while we make dinner or pick at the leftovers in the kitchen, we can make a commitment to eat food only at the dining room table and allow no eating in the kitchen or when standing. It may be difficult at first; constant awareness is needed. Behaviorists claim that it takes three weeks to change a habit and create a new one, so keep at it. Part of our eating behavior is affected by psychological aspects, such as our self-image, relationships to family or partner, sexuality, and general stress. Often, counseling is important to help change behavior to meet our dietary challenge. Successfully achieving a new weight means changing our diet, not "going on a diet." When we return to our old, "normal" diet, we will create the same body we had before, and likely add another pound or three. First we change our diet by substituting wholesome foods for the more high-calorie and chemical foods in the diet. Next, we work to create good habits. The following list offers some suggestions for behavior patterns, food choices, and activities to help reach and maintain our optimum weight. Before beginning a new diet plan, a health evaluation may be important, especially for those with recent weight gain or symptoms of medical problems. Before embarking on any low-calorie diets, we should have a complete exam, general biochemistry panel, and, if over 45, an electrocardiogram. A complete thyroid hormone panel is often useful to rule out low thyroid function, which could be a cause of weight gain or difficulty in losing weight. Blood fats, protein, potassium, and calcium levels are also important monitors in the process of weight loss. A positive side effect of diet change and weight loss is reduction of blood cholesterol and triglycerides and high blood pressure, yet also watching for mineral depletions, particularly of potassium, is a good idea. A food allergy evaluation may be a valuable step on the path to a trim and healthier body. Many people have internal reactions to foods, with increased immune response, cellular irritation, and many possible symptoms. These can cause inflammatory activity and water retention, as well as poor utilization of other foods. Currently, the best way to isolate problem foods is a blood test that measures levels of IgG antibodies to specific food antigens (the protein stimuli of the food). This reveals delayed or "hidden" food allergy or hypersensitivity. Measuring IgE levels can determine foods causing more immediate reactions, such as hives, asthma, or eczema, though these reactions are relatively uncommon, which is why skin tests, which measure the IgE reactions, are not very helpful. Cytotoxic testing, looking at cellular reactions, is no longer used because interpretations of its results were too subjective. Antibody measurement is more reproducible. Testing food reactions ourselves by trying different foods in the diet and observing how we feel can be very useful for the astute person, but the reactions may involve other variables besides the foods. TV doctor Dean Edell feels that the best method is double-blind testing—giving patients encapsulated dried foods as well as placebos, without the patient or tester knowing which is which, or even what food is being tested. This is a good method, but it is time consuming, and it assumes that food reactions occur so dramatically and immediately that people can be aware of them. Some reactions do happen at once, but many are more subtle and occur 12–24 hours later. Avoiding the causes of these quieter internal reactions contributes to the body’s fine-tuning and makes weight loss easier. Food allergy testing followed by a rotation diet avoiding the reactive foods plays an essential part in reaching and maintaining optimum weight and health (see more in the Allergy program in this chapter). Several possible diets can be used as long-term plans for people who have problems maintaining their optimum weight. These are all generally healthier diets than those of the general population. There are literally thousands of quick-weight-loss, low-calorie, nutrient-deficient diets available to consumers. That is not what we are looking for to achieve our goals. I do not usually recommend fasting for weight loss, but if someone wants to lose a quick five to ten pounds in a short period of time, I will work with them, after an evaluation, with the overall intention of using that period to create a new eating plan to be used when the fast is over. Fasting is very valuable at increasing food awareness and sensitivity to both bad and good foods and eliminating addictive food and eating patterns, so that people can come back to eating with new enthusiasm and attention. A one-day-a-week fast on water or juices can be a valuable tool for many people who want to lose or maintain weight as it reemphasizes the importance of food choices and food awareness. Behavior Patterns for Optimum Weight - Focus on decreasing caloric intake and increasing calories out (exercise). - Eat most foods early in the day for best utilization of calories. - Drink eight to ten glasses of water daily, but not with meals. - Drink two glasses of water 30 minutes before meals to reduce appetite. - Eat lots of fruits and vegetables—as snacks, too. - Walk a lot and exercise regularly. - Avoid fats in the diet—they are more caloric. - Use only low-fat or nonfat milk products. - Minimize salad dressings, cream soup, and meats. - Lessen or avoid alcohol and caffeine; minimize salt intake. - Rotate foods—eat a variety; isolate allergenic foods and avoid them. - Practice food combining. - See a nutritionist to help with the eating plan or for food-habit counseling. - Use smaller plate and portions. - Fill up first on lower calorie foods, such as soups or vegetable. - Avoid high-calories snacks and desserts. - Wait 10–15 minutes before taking seconds—hunger will decrease. - At restaurants, avoid overeating and take any extra food home. - Take at least 20–30 minutes to eat a meal, even snacks. - Eat at only one or two places in the home. - Sit and relax before eating. - Avoid eating while watching TV, driving, or doing other things. - Shop for food only after eating, not when hungry. - Create a schedule for eating. - Plan meals and food choices ahead, snacks included. - Carry food with you to work or when going out so that you have the right choices. - Put snacks and sweet foods away at home. - Stay out of the kitchen, cupboard, and refrigerator unless preparing food. - Plan activities to occupy your free time when you might snack. - Tell family and friends to support you and not push food. - If you blow it, go right back to your plan, and do not make it an excuse to indulge. - Weigh yourself only once every week or two. - Learn about food, fats, calories, and so on , so you know what you are doing. - Keep a good self-image and positive attitude toward life. - Allow yourself to indulge (within reason) once weekly without guilt or self-judgement. - Realize that it is ultimately up to you. The essential aspects of a healthy weight-loss diet are lean protein (for example, fish and poultry), low fat, and lots of vegetables. High-fiber foods, with some complex carbohydrates, are also helpful, especially with an orientation to vegetables and vegetable-protein combinations such as grains and legumes. Eating a variety of foods and rotating those foods every few days is important. Cold-pressed vegetable oils are the main fats, with some low-fat dairy products if tolerated. Saturated and hydrogenated fats are minimized. Refined sugar and flour foods, including baked goods, candy, sodas, and other sweets, are avoided. Alcohol is out, and caffeine is minimized. We need to drink lots of water instead to support normal weight and healthy skin and internal functions. Meals are restructured to include a moderate breakfast, great lunch, and light dinner. Snacks are low-calorie foods, such as fruits, vegetables, popcorn, or crackers. Overeating is prohibited. We must take breaks during big meals to let the body balance and let us know whether it needs more food. It usually does not; we really require a lot less food than our overweight mind tells us. Our satiation meter needs to be turned down, and that will take a golden key, which is not always easy to find. It may require going through our past, our emotional and psychological barriers, to find our creative spark and drive to be our best self and not let food interfere with this path of power. It really takes responsibility and a commitment to our new body-to-be, and a knowledge and belief that we can do it. We need to think more about eating to survive and feeding our body with the best possible fuel. Taking the time to eat, chewing each bite thoroughly, is essential to short-term digestion and absorption and the long-term health of the whole digestive tract. Being aware of the process of eating and of what food is eaten is a must.
State's eighth-graders need to improve writing CALIFORNIA National testing of eighth-graders finds just 25% in state perform at grade level Published 4:00 am, Friday, April 4, 2008 California's eighth-graders write well enough to convey information, but their words and sentence structures "are often simple and unvaried," according to the latest state-by-state writing test known as the Nation's Report Card. Yet the simple and unvaried truth is that 13-year-olds in nearly all states write in similarly bland fashion, labeled "sufficient." Results released Thursday by the U.S. Department of Education show that only one state - New Jersey - reached the "skillful" level, in which students routinely churn out clearly organized essays. No state reached the "excellent" level, where readers feel compelled to read to the end. Within the national band of sufficient mediocrity, eighth-graders in California write less well than their peers, ranking 38th out of 47 states and jurisdictions that took part in the survey. That means just 25 percent of the state's eighth-graders scored at grade level in writing, compared with 56 percent in top-ranked New Jersey. LATEST SFGATE VIDEOS - Handout Video: Brushwood Estate Lake Tahoesfgate - How to stay safe around mountain lionssfgate - The Regulars: The Performersfgate - Charter bus overturns on Hwy. 101 in SFsfgate - Fun facts about Bay Area celebritiessfgate - San Diego Fire Department's footage from the Lilac Firesfgate - Google Earth tour of San Franciscosfgate - Spiked Eggnog Custard With Rum-Caramel Popcornsfgate - Whole Foods' first 365 store opens in the Bay Areasfgate - Sen. Al Franken announces his upcoming resignation from the Senatesfgate The national average was 31 percent writing at grade level. Mississippi posted the lowest scores, with 15 percent scoring at grade level. California students have improved, however. The writing test was last administered in 2002, when 23 percent of the state's students scored at grade level. In 1998, 20 percent did as well. Depending on the year, the test is given to a sampling of students in grades 4, 8 or 12 in a variety of subjects. State participation is voluntary. This writing test was administered in 2007 to 165,000 students nationwide in grades 8 and 12, with state results provided only for eighth-graders. Most educators take the Nation's Report Card seriously because it serves as a sort of academic Olympics in which states are pitted against each other, emerging as academic stars or duds. But a frequent criticism is that the scoring is unfair because states with large numbers of English learners and low-income students - like California - are compared with sample groups that are primarily white and more affluent. On Thursday, state Superintendent Jack O'Connell noted that California had more English learners taking the test than any other state. He said that when similar groups of students are stacked up against each other, California looks better. "It is of interest to note that when compared to the national results, California's English learner population scored the same as English learners nationally, although the average score for English learners fell far below their counterparts who are fluent in English," he said. Nearly half of California students tested were Latino, compared with 19 percent nationwide. Just under a third were white, compared with 58 percent nationwide. About 12 percent were Asian American, compared with 5 percent nationwide. And 7 percent were black, compared with 17 percent nationwide. -- To see the full report, go to links.sfgate.com/ZCXK.
Earth Day 2015 marks 45 years of celebrating this one of a kind planet that we call home. Started in 1970, Earth Day organizations have spawned both grass-roots movements as well as the EPA, or environmental protection agency. Many laws that protect both the land and the wildlife we share this earth with have come from the EPA and related organizations. And despite being in its 45th year, the purposes behind Earth day are more important now than they ever were. Every year we have more tools with which to protect the earth and to decrease our carbon footprint. And every year we need to start creating new eco-friendly habits, and inspiring others to do the same. But don’t get daunted: you can take small steps that will lead to big changes down the road. Consider volunteering at a recycling center, or organizing a local recycling drive. Or research the local addresses and phone numbers for recycling facilities, and what they offer, to share at school, work, and extra curricular activities. Even reusing scrap paper, biking or carpooling to work, and supporting eco-friendly products helps. And be sure to share your tips and tricks with others. Because sometimes the biggest thing holding people back from change is researching the who, what, when, where, and how. Even doing something as simple as wearing eco-green pins to spread the word and start conversations with people can help inspire change. PinMart has an entire line of pins that are made from recycled materials, and can be worn year round to remind others to do their part on Earth Day, and every day.
Guest Blog provided by UNH Cooperative Extension’s Education Center For many vegetable gardeners, peak harvest season has passed and we find ourselves solemnly imagining how life will be without the option of harvesting fresh produce for our plates daily. Luckily there is still time to try seeding some cool season crops that can handle colder temperatures and actually taste better once cool weather arrives. To start with, you will want to make sure that your soil is well prepared and free of large soil clods and rocks. Most greens seeds are small and won’t germinate as well in such conditions. While working the soil, apply a balanced fertilizer to ensure that your greens are well-fed throughout remainder of the season. In certain soils that are very clumpy or tend to form a crust when dry, make a very small trench or depression just 1/8 inch deep. I generally use a board turned with a corner pointed down and press lightly to make the depression. The end of a hoe handle can also be used to mark out the row and leave the shallow trench. Seeding into this trench and covering with a fine seed starting mix or compost will ensure that germinating seedlings can easily push up through the soil surface. Another good technique for sowing greens mixes is to simply take a metal garden rake, the one with the thick metal teeth, and rake one direction across the bed down the entire length. Do this only to a depth appropriate for the crops you are sowing, often only ¼ inch deep. This will make several of the shallow planting trenches to hold your seeds. Then broadcast your mix across the entire bed, scattering the seeds so that you have one land every inch or so. Next, simply rake very lightly across the bed again, but this time rake perpendicular to the direction you raked before. This will cover the majority of your greens seeds with enough soil for good germination. That’s it. Water sufficiently to moisten the top inch of soil and seeding is complete. Once your greens are seeded, they absolutely must remain moist during the germination and establishment period. A watering wand with a gentle shower setting is a good choice to avoid washing soil and seeds out of the rows while watering. The first two weeks from seeding through germination, emergence and early growth are critical where adequate moisture is concerned. Thin seedlings as needed and keep weeds under control, especially early on as the greens become established. What type of greens can be grown during the late summer, fall and into winter? A basic mesclun, or salad mix is a great choice. If you like a bit of a spicy bite in your mix, consider sowing mustards, arugula, mizuna and tatsoi. You can purchase pre-made mixes or create your own custom tailored to your own taste preferences. Some crops are hardier than others or simply quicker to grow to a harvestable size. The most reliable group includes spinach, baby kale, tatsoi and claytonia. Next would be arugula, mizuna, cress and pac choi, followed by baby lettuces, baby Swiss chard and radishes. Planting calendars for winter harvest of these crops are available online, and the best of them take into consideration the effect that shorter days have on plant growth rates. All of the crops listed in this article can be grown under protective covering such as a small hoop structure when seeded as late as the third full week in September, while the hardiest options like spinach, baby kale tatsoi and claytonia could be seeded up until mid-October. Of course, gardeners farther north would need to plant on the early side for best results. One of the great things about growing greens late in the season is that many of the pest and disease pressures that we deal with early in the season begin to lighten up. Additionally, the sunny days and cool night temperatures result in higher sugar levels in the plants, which means great flavor on the plate. Protect Your Plantings To really get the most out of your planting, you’ll need to use floating row covers to help protect your greens from cold temperatures, drying winds and early frosts. This lightweight spun-bonded fabric allows light, water and air to pass through it, but offers a few degrees of frost protection that could result in a substantially extended harvest season. Floating row covers get their name because they are actually used by some growers by just pulling them over the plants and allowing them to “float” or rest on top. During heavy frosts, the plants can still get burnt where they are in contact with the fabric. To remedy this, use heavy gauge wire, pvc piping, or even metal conduit bent into the shape of an arch and placed every 4 to 5 feet down the bed. Essentially, you are making a tiny hoop house with a protected microclimate inside. Consider using the heavier weight row covers, which are measured in ounces per square yard. Clear plastic can also be used for this purpose, but much greater care should be taken in managing ventilation to avoid buildup of excess heat and humidity. Adding a layer of clear plastic over the row cover after a few heavy frosts will provide additional protection and extend the harvest further yet. Experimenting with seeding dates, crop mixes and season extension techniques can result is harvest well in to the fall and winter.
Only 10% of South African snakes are venomous (I am not sure of the proportion in other countries), the younger snakes having a higher concentration of venom that the adult snakes. Snakes have either teeth or fangs. Fangs can either be found in the back of the mouth or in the front, and can either inject the venom into your skin or squirt it into your eyes. Problems that you will face are: Can you identify the snake? Most people cannot. Is the snake venomous? This can only be known by the identity of the snake. If the snake is venomous, what type of venom was injected into you? Once again, the identity of the snake will solve this one. How long will you live for? That depends on how old the snake was, how much venom was actually injected and the concentration of the venom. TYPES OF VENOMOUS SNAKE BITES Cobras and Mambas inject Neurotoxic venom which will affect the nervous system and cause initial muscle weakness, blurred vision, difficulty in swallowing and breathing and eventually paralysis. Adders inject Cytotoxic venom which will cause massive swelling and bruising to the area that was bitten, and could eventually burst the skin open. Boomslange and Vine Snakes inject Haemotoxic venom which destroys the platelets in the blood and causes major internal bleeding in the lungs, liver, kidneys, spleen etc., and blood will also leak out of all orifices in your body, including minor wounds and bruises. Berg Adders are highly dangerous as they inject both Neurotoxic and Cytotoxic venom into you. TREATMENT OF SNAKE BITES What NOT to do: Do not panic and run around as this will increase the blood circulation and transport the venom quicker around the body. Do not make a tourniquet (this means to tie a cloth tightly around the arm or leg) as this will kill the arm or leg below it and it might have to be amputated later, as well as concentrate the venom (if it was a venomous bite) in the area and kill that body part off quicker. Do not cut and try to suck out the venom as we see them do in cowboy movies, as the venom will still get absorbed into your blood stream through your gums and cheeks. What TO do: Do loosen the clothing, reassure the patient, and keep him calm and quiet. Do dress the wound with a bandage and keep it cool (in the shade). This will stop your blood vessels dilating and decrease the blood flow in that area. Do watch the patient carefully, if he loses consciousness, apply the ABC's (see below). The ABC's (these three things are useful to remember in the majority of first aid situations): A = Airways, tilt his neck backwards to get the tongue away from the back of his throat and stop him from choking on it. Do not put a blanket or anything under his head. B = Breathing, look, listen and feel to check if he is still breathing. If he has stopped breathing, give him one breath every five seconds. C = Circulation, check his pulse in his neck, on either side of his windpipe, or listen for a heartbeat by putting your ear next to his chest. Once the situation has been assessed, then get help as quickly as possible. He would need to get to hospital soon. In hospital, if the snake is unknown, they would treat the patient symptomatically, that is, they would put him on a breathing machine if he stops breathing, give antibiotics if he shows signs of infection, etc. Most people that get brought to hospital for snake bites, don't know much about the snake, so the practice of giving the patient an anti-venom is only done is certain cases. (Besides, anti-venom is only housed in Cape Town and Pretoria, so anyone hiking in the Drakensberg - South Africa - and that gets bitten by a snake, will probably get brought to a Durban hospital, hence the symptomatic treatment which is given - this applies to South Africa). Short note about the author Gerald Crawford was born in South Africa, studied electronics, telecommunication, eco-travel and african travel concepts. He taught responsible tourism in South Africa. If you have any questions or comments please e-mail me on. E-mail Address: [email protected] Website Address: http://www.12234455.co.za.
Otto made his first public appearance as a representative of the House of Habsburg at the tender age of four, at the funeral of his great-great-uncle Emperor Franz Joseph in November 1916. The funeral procession was an impressive spectacle and remained engraved on the memory of many participants and onlookers. The young Otto walked behind the catafalque wearing a brilliant white tunic with a black sash which stood out against the sombre procession. As a symbol of innocence and new beginnings he attracted the sympathy of the crowd in a time of war-weariness and lack of hope. The child’s presence was a public relations coup, given that the dynasty no longer enjoyed undivided support after the death of the aged emperor. As a child Otto experienced the fruitless efforts of his parents to regain the power they had lost. Aged nine he witnessed his father’s death agony: Karl insisted that his son be present so that he could see ‘how a Christian returns to his Creator’. As he was the eldest son, Otto was groomed to be his father’s successor after the latter’s early death. From his earliest years he was brought up as the future head of the dynasty who might one day regain the throne. Thus immediately after his father’s death Otto was addressed as Imperial Majesty, and those around him had to accord him every obeisance due to an emperor, despite the straitened circumstances they were living in. When Otto attained his majority in 1930, his mother put the political legacy of his father into his hands and he was formally recognized as the head of the dynasty. This claim was also reflected in his education: taught at first by private tutors, for the last few years of his schooling he attended the secondary school run by the Benedictine Abbey at Clairvaux in Luxemburg. Even his school leaving exams were co-opted as a declaration of his status: the former emperor’s son was examined by a panel of Austrian and Hungarian teachers in accordance with the regulations that had pertained before 1918. After this he began to study law and political science at the University of Leuven in Belgium, where he was matriculated under the pseudonym ‘Count of Bar’. The latter was one of the titles borne by the head of the Habsburg-Lorraine dynasty, and was also a clear reference to his Lotharingian roots. While spending a term studying in Berlin in 1932/33 he witnessed the National Socialist takeover of power on 31 January 1933 and left Germany immediately. In 1935 he completed his studies and received his doctorate in law. In 1936 he began to be active in the Pan-Europa movement. This had been founded by the Bohemian aristocrat Count Richard Coudenhove-Kalergi with the aim of uniting Europe on the principles of democracy and Christian ideals as a counterweight to the totalitarian tendencies of the chauvinist-nationalist and Communist factions. In the meantime the political climate in Austria had changed, and public opinion – at least in Conservative-Catholic circles – increasingly began to see positive sides to the Habsburg legacy. Otto won support from the ‘Iron Ring’ monarchist association which became a platform for the hitherto unorganized legitimist tendencies. In 1931 Otto was made a freeman of the town of Ampass in Tyrol. This was the first sign of a changed attitude towards the dynasty. This initiative gradually became a veritable movement; by 1938 Otto had been made a freeman of 1,603 towns in Austria. Translation: Sophie Kidd Baier, Stephan; Demmerle, Eva: Otto von Habsburg, Die Biografie. 5. Aufl., Amalthea, Wien 2007 Brook-Shepherd, Gordon: Otto von Habsburg. Biografie. Verlag Styria, Graz-Wien-Köln, 2002 Leidinger, Hannes; Moritz, Verena; Schippler, Berndt: Schwarzbuch der Habsburger. Die unrühmliche Geschichte eines Herrscherhauses, 2. Auflage, Innsbruck, Wien 2010 Riedl, Joachim: Ein letzter Hauch der Monarchie. Mit dem Tod von Otto Habsburg geht ein Kapitel österreichischer Geschichte endgültig zu Ende. In: Wochenzeitung Die Zeit, Nr. 28, 7. Juli 2011, Österreich-Ausgabe, S. 14. - The Habsburgs in exile I: from Switzerland to Madeira - Attempts to regain power - Putsch attempts in Hungary - Habsburgs in exile II: 1922-1945 - Zita – to the very last for ‘God, Emperor and Fatherland’ - Otto, the last ‘crown prince’ - Otto and Austrofascism - The ‘Habsburg Crisis’ - The beatification of Emperor Karl I
Number of schools Medium Home Price Median Household Income Wenatchee is the largest city in Chelan County and technically sits on the West side of the Columbia river. East Wenatchee is literally right across the river, but lies in Douglas County and is considered a separate entity. Wenatchee might be most famous for the apple orchards that are liberally scattered throughout the area. There is quite the history of hydroelectric power activity in the area as well, with multiple dams in close proximity to Wenatchee. - Wenatchee is currently the the 33rd largest city in the State of Washington. - According to the latest Census data taken in 2010, Wenatchee is home to about 32,000 residents. - It used to known as the Buckle of the Power Belt of the Northwest. This was because of all the hydroelectric power generated in the region. - Wenatchee was named for an Indian tribe. The original spelling was “Wenatchi”. - Physical size: About 8 sq miles.
For more than a decade, no single issue has caused more frustration or curiosity for Python novices and experts alike than the Global Interpreter Lock. An Open Question Every field has one. A problem that has been written off as too difficult, too time consuming. Merely mentioning an attempt to solve it raises eyebrows. Long after the community at large has moved on, it is taken up by those on the fringe. Attempts by novices are undertaken for no other reason than the difficulty of the problem and the imagined accolades that would accompany a solution. The open question in Computer Science of whether P = NP is such a problem. An answer to the affirmative has the possibility to literally change the world, provided a "reasonable" polynomial time algorithm is presented. Python's hardest problem is less difficult than crafting a proof of P = NP, to be sure. Nevertheless, it has not received a satisfactory solution to date, and the practical implications of a solution would be similarly transformative. Thus, it's easy to see why so many in the Python community are interested in an answer to the question: "What can be done about the Global Interpreter Lock?" A Low Level Look at Python To understand the GIL and its implications, we must start at Python's foundations. Languages like C++ are compiled languages, so named because a program is fed in to a compiler where it is parsed according to the language's grammar, transformed into a language agnostic intermediate representation, and linked into an executable comprised of highly optimized machine code. The compiler is able to optimize the code so aggressively because it is seeing the whole program (or large, self-contained chunks) at once. This allows it to reason about interactions between different language constructs and make informed decisions about optimization. In contrast, Python is an interpreted language. The program is fed into an interpreter in order to be run. The interpreter has no knowledge of the program before it is run; rather, it knows the rules of Python and is capable of dynamically applying those rules. It too has optimizations, but optimizations of a rather different class. Since the interpreter cannot reason about the program proper, most of Python's optimizations are optimizations of the interpreter itself. A faster interpreter means faster program execution "for free". That is, when the interpreter is optimized, Python programs need not change to realize the benefit. This is an important point, so it bears repeating. The execution speed of a Python program, all other things being equal, is directly tied to the "speed" of the interpreter. No matter how much optimization you do within your program itself, your program's execution speed is still tied to how efficiently the interpreter can execute your code. It is clear, then, why much work has been devoted to optimizing the Python interpreter. It is the closest thing to a free lunch Python programmers can get. The Free Lunch Is Over Or is it? A generation of programmers have learned to write code while Moore's Law was delivering hardware based speedups with predictable timing. If one wrote code that was slow, simply waiting a bit for faster processors was oftentimes the easiest solution. Indeed, Moore's law still holds true and likely will for quite a bit longer, but the way in which it holds has fundamentally changed. No longer are clock rates steadily increasing to dizzying speeds. Instead, multiple cores are used to take advantage of transistor density increases. Programs wishing to capitalize on new processors must be rewritten to exploit parallelism. When most developers hear "parallelism" the immediately think of multi-threaded programs. Utilizing multiple threads of execution is by far the most common way to take advantage of multi-core systems. While multi-threaded programming is a good deal tougher than "sequential" programming, the careful programmer may nevertheless exploit parallelizable portions of his or her code to great effect. The implementation language should be an afterthought, since almost all heavily used modern languages support multi-threaded programming. A Surprising Fact Now we come to the crux of the issue. To take advantage of multi-core systems, Python must support multiple threads of execution. Being an interpreted language, Python's interpreter must be written in such a way so that doing so is both safe and performant. We all know the issues that multi-threaded programming can present. The interpreter must be mindful not to operate on internally shared data from different threads. It must also manage user's threads in such a way that the maximum amount of computation is being performed at all times. What, then, is the mechanism by which data is protected from simultaneous access by different threads? The Global Interpreter Lock. The name is instructive. Quite literally, it is a global (in the sense of the interpreter) lock (in the sense of a mutex or similar construct) on the interpreter. This approach is certainly safe, but it has (for the new Python programmer), a startling implication: in any Python program, no matter how many threads and how many processors are present, only one thread is being executed at any time. Many discover this fact by accident. Newsgroups and message boards are littered with messages from Python novices and experts alike asking "why does my newly multi-threaded Python program run slower than when it had only one thread?" Many feel silly even asking the question, since of course a program with two threads where before there was just one will be faster (assuming that the work is indeed parallelizable). In fact, the question is asked so frequently that Python experts have crafted a standard answer: "Do not use multiple threads. Use multiple processes." But this answer is even more confusing than its question. I shouldn't use multiple threads in Python? How can multi-threading in a language as popular as Python be so broken as to have experts recommending against its use? Surely I'm missing something? Sadly, nothing has been missed. Due to the design of the Python interpreter, using multiple threads to increase performance is at best a difficult task. At worst, it will decrease (sometimes significantly) the speed of your program. A freshman CS undergrad could tell you what to expect when threads are all competing for a single shared resource. The results are often not pretty. That said, there are many times that multi-threading works well, and it is perhaps a testament to both the interpreter implementation and the core developers that there are not more complaints about Python's multi-threading performance. What Now? Panic? So what, then, can be done? Are we as Python developers meant to give up the idea of using multiple threads to exploit parallelism? Why does the GIL need to guarantee only one thread is running at a time anyway? Couldn't finer-grained locks be added to protect individual objects from simultaneous access? And why has no one attempted something like this before? These are useful questions with interesting answers. The GIL protects access to things like the current thread state and heap allocated object for garbage collection. There is nothing special about the Python language, however, that requires the use of a GIL. It is an artifact of the implementation. There are alternative Python interpreters (and compilers) that do not make use of a GIL. For CPython, though, it's been there pretty much since the beginning. So why not get rid of it? Many are not aware, but this was attempted back in 1999 for Python 1.5 in the oft-cited but poorly understood "free threading" patches from Greg Stein. In the patches, the GIL was completely removed and replaced with finer grained locking. Its removal, however, came at the expense of execution speed for single-threaded programs. It was perhaps 40% slower when running with a single thread. Two threads showed an increase in speed, but beyond that the benefits did not scale linearly with the number of cores. Because of the degradation in execution speed, the patches were rejected and largely forgotten. The GIL is Hard. Let's Go Shopping! The "free threading" patches are instructive, though, in that they demonstrate a fundamental point about the Python interpreter: removing the GIL is hard. Since the time of the patches, the interpreter has come to rely on more global state, making the removal of today's GIL that much more difficult. It should be noted that it is precisely for this reason that many become interested in attempting to remove the GIL in the first place; hard problems are fun. But perhaps this is all a bit misguided. Let's consider what would happen if we had a magical patch that removed the GIL with no performance penalty to single threaded Python code. We would have what we said we wanted all along: a threading API that properly makes use of all processors simultaneously. Now that we've got what we want, is it actually a good thing? Thread based programming is hard. There are no two ways about it. Every time one thinks he or she understands everything there is to know about how threading works, a new wrinkle is uncovered. A number of high-profile language designers and researchers have come out against the threading model because it is simply too difficult to get right with any reasonable degree of consistency. As anyone who has written a multi-threaded application can tell you, both developing and debugging are exponentially more difficult compared to a single threaded program. The programmer's mental model, while well suited for sequential programs, just doesn't match the parallel execution model. The GIL, then, unintentionally serves to help protect a programmer from his or her self. While synchronization primitives are still required when using threads, the GIL actually helps preserve consistency of data between threads. It seems, then, that Python's most difficult question may be asking the wrong thing. There's a good reason that Python experts recommend using multiple processes instead of multiple threads, and it's not to hide the inadequacies of the Python threading implementation. Rather, it is to encourage developers to use a safer and more straightforward concurrency model and reserve multi-threaded programming for when it is absolutely necessary. To many, it is not clear what, if any, is the "best" model for parallel programming. What is clear to most, however, is multiple threads is not it. As for the GIL, don't think it just sits there static and unanalyzed. Python 3.2 saw a new GIL implementation by Antoine Pitrou with encouraging results. It was the first major change to the GIL since 1992. The change is too large to explain here, but at a high level, the old GIL counted Python instructions to determine when it was time to give up the GIL. As it turns out, a single Python instruction can comprise a large amount of work, as they don't translate 1:1 to machine instructions. In the new GIL, a hard timeout is used to instruct the current thread to give up the lock. When a second thread requests the lock, the thread currently holding it is compelled to release it after 5ms (that is, it checks if it needs to release it every 5ms). This leads to more predictable switching between threads when work is available. It is not a perfect change, however. Perhaps the most active researcher into the effect of the GIL on various types of work is David Beazley. In addition to what is likely the most in-depth look at the pre-3.2 GIL, he has researched the new GIL implementation and discovered a number of interesting program profiles for which even the new GIL performs quite poorly. He continues to drive the discussion surrounding the GIL forward with practical research and published results. Regardless of one's personal feelings about Python's Global Interpreter Lock, it remains the language's most difficult technical challenge. To understand its implications requires a thorough understanding of operating system design, multi-threaded programming, C, interpreter design, and the CPython interpreter implementation. Those prerequisites alone preclude many developers from investigating it more thoroughly. Nevertheless, the GIL shows no signs of going away any time soon. For the time being, it will continue to both confuse and surprise those new to the language while simultaneously intriguing those interested in trying to solve very difficult technical problems. The preceding is based on my research to date into the Python interpreter. While there are many other parts of the interpreter I hope to write about, none is more well known than the Global Interpreter Lock. The technical details were researched thoroughly against the CPython repository tip, though I imagine there are some inaccuracies. If you spot one, please let me know so that I may correct it as quickly as possible.Posted on by Jeff Knupp
Ever wonder how you can remember the lyrics of a song that was popular and you sang along with maybe 20 years ago, but still forget what you may have had for breakfast? We spend a lifetime using our brains during every waking and sleeping moment to acquire knowledge. Some refer to our brains as the infinite resource being able to solve a multitude of problems on a daily basis. It is obvious that we must have knowledge to solve problems in our work or home whether it be social, emotional or even functional. In order to be successful in formulating a pathway for solution, we need a reservoir of information and data that we acquire from our reading, communicating with others, and by doing formal study. Having facts, ideas, and methods available in our memories we can analyze, conclude, and understand. The more knowledge we gain, the more curious we become and innovation is not far behind. So the question is; What are the best techniques for students to study so that they may retain the greatest amount of knowledge which they need in their daily schooling? The brain makes connections on bits of information it is presented and formulates ideas on what follows in memory. Cognitive scientists have been working for years on how the brain processes thoughts and makes sense of various stimuli. The latest research suggests that spaced repetition is one of the most powerful vehicles to help us learn. Simply quizzing ourselves often pays great benefits. Each time our brain tries and is successful in retrieving information, the greater its capacity to solidify in memory. As an independent school, we find that reviewing information or practicing at the right time is critical for durable learning. Spaced repetition or “Distributed Practice” refers to reviews that take place after some time from the original learning event, as opposed to reviews that occur immediately following the original learning event (termed massed practice). Using Spaced Practice takes a little of planning to begin with; however, in the long run information will remain in memory longer and will actually reduce study time. Here’s how it works! Using a vehicle such as flash cards is the easiest way to begin. Studying your cards for five hours spread out over two weeks is better than the same five hours all at once. Review information from each class, but not immediately after class. After reviewing information from the most recent class, make sure to go back and study important older information to keep it fresh. Just like in sports, practice makes perfect. Using flash cards or apps. like Anki or Quizlet are much more powerful than just re-reading your class notes. At first this may seem difficult and you may forget some information from day-to-day, but this is actually a good thing! A little struggle forces the brain to retrieve information from memory making topics more understandable and cased in stone as they say. Creating small spaces between study while doing a little bit over time adds up in the future. In the research literature, the learning advantage of distributed over massed practice is known as the spacing effect. In general, the research is clear that spaced practice is superior for long-term learning and retention. The reason that spaced repetition seems to work is that each time the information you are attempting to remember is recalled your brain has to search for this information and this deep process of retrieval over time strengthens the neural connections. It is also thought that this practice is the secret to long term retention of knowledge since this process helps connect related material and presents the brain with the opportunity to become creative to solve problems in life.
TRAIL TO EAGLE Significance of the Eagle Scout Rank The fact that a young man is an Eagle Scout has always carried with it a special significance, not only in Scouting but also as he enters higher education, business or industry, and community service. The award is a performance-based achievement whose standards have been well-maintained over the years. Not every boy who joins a Boy Scout troop earns the Eagle Scout rank; only about 5% of all Boy Scouts do so. This represents more than 2 million Boy Scouts who have earned the rank since 1912. Nevertheless, the goals of Scouting—citizenship training, character development, and personal fitness—remain important for all Scouts, whether or not they attain the Eagle Scout rank.
Borage nutrition facts Borage or bee plant is one of the chosen culinary herbs used by our grandmothers to make their meals look and taste better, be it to make popular green sauce, to garnish salads or to pamper children with candied flowers! This ancient garden herb exudes characteristic cucumber aroma to the recipes it added to...thus making it as one of the most sought after herb in the households. Botanically, it belongs to the family of Borabinaceae, of the genus Borago and has scientific name: Borago officinalis. The herb is known also as starflower since it bears five petal deep blue color star-shaped beautiful flowers in clusters. Some other common names include bee bread, burrage, common bugloss...etc. Borage is annual hollow stemmed plant with bristly hairs and reaches about 75-90 cm in height. It grows in plentiful all over the wild highlands of Eastern Europe and Asia Minor regions. The plant features broad oval shaped dark green fuzzy leaves. In general, its leaves are harvested from the plant just after the flower buds form but before flowering. Younger leaves are used in salads while older leaves are used as greens. However, as the plant gets older, the leaves get tougher, larger, more fuzzy, and bitter in taste. Health benefits of borage Borage is one of very popular culinary herb especially in Mediterranean countries. The herb contains many notable phyto-nutrients, minerals, and vitamins that are essential for optimum health and wellness. The herb parts contain essential fatty acid gamma-linolenic acid (GLA), typically in concentrations of 17-20%. Linolenic acid is omega-6 fatty acid that play vital role in restoration of joint health, immunity, healthy skin and mucus membranes. Fresh burrage herb has high levels of vitamin C (ascorbic acid); provide 35 mcg or 60% of RDA per 100 g. Vitamin C is one of the powerful natural anti-oxidant help remove harmful free radicals from the body. Along with other anti-oxidants, it has immune booster, wound healing and anti-viral effects. Burrage herb contains very high levels of vitamin A (140% of RDA) and carotenes . Both these compounds are powerful flavonoid anti-oxidants. Together, they act as protective scavengers against oxygen-derived free radicals and reactive oxygen species (ROS) that play a role in aging and various disease processes. Vitamin A is known to have antioxidant properties and is essential for vision. It is also required for maintaining healthy mucus membranes and skin. Consumption of natural foods rich in vitamin A and carotenes are known to help body protect from lung and oral cavity cancers. The herb has good amount of minerals like iron (41% of RDA), calcium, potassium, manganese, copper, zinc, and magnesium. Potassium is an important component of cell and body fluids, which helps control heart rate and blood pressure. Manganese is used by the body as a co-factor for the antioxidant enzyme, superoxide dismutase. Iron is an important co-factor for cytochrome oxidase enzyme in the cellular metabolism. In addition, being a component of hemoglobin inside the red blood cells, it determines the oxygen carrying capacity of the blood. The herb is one of the good sources of B-complex vitamins, particularly rich in niacin (vitamin B-3). Niacin helps lower LDL cholesterol levels in the body. In addition, it has riboflavin, thiamin, pyridoxine, and folates in adequate levels. These vitamins function as co-factors in the enzymatic metabolism inside the body. |Principle||Nutrient Value||Percentage of RDA| |Total Fat||0.70 g||2%| |Pantothenic acid||0.041 mg||1%| |Vitamin A||4200 IU||140%| |Vitamin C||35 mg||60%| Selection and storage Borage should be fresh for use in salads and in cooking. While buying from the markets look for fresh herb leaves with stout succulent stem and delicate cucumber flavor, which emanate when you hold the plant from short distance. Like other greens such as spinach, borage can stay fresh only for few days and looses flavor rather sooner. In addition, unlike other herbs (like oregano); dried borage leaves are out of flavor and hence used only when they are fresh. Avoid sunken, yellow or dried leaves as they are out of flavor and taste. Once at home, store borage as you do it for spinach or like any other greens. Preparation and serving methods: Wash fresh herb in cold running water or rinse for few minutes to remove any dust or any pesticide residues. The herb can be used in large quantities like green vegetables. Remove tough leaves and stem using paring knife. Here are some cooking tips: Young tender borage leaves add flavor of cucumber to salads. Mature leaves can be used as a green vegetable in much the same way as spinach. It mixes well with other greens, green beans, carrots, potato, tomato etc. Tender leaves used to make cool juice with added lemonade. Borage flowers are often cooked in batter as fritters. They can also be candied. Borage is one of the common ingredients along with parsley, chervil, chives, watercress, sorrel, and salad burnet in the preparation of traditional German green sauce. Fresh herb can also be added to sausages, pizza and in poultry stuffing. Borage tea is popular refreshing drink in the European countries. Medicinal uses of borage herb Borage herb parts especially its seeds contain many health benefiting essential oil such as gamma-linolenic acid. This omega-6 fatty acid (18:3 fats) has recommended in the treatment of arthritis, dermatitis, pre-menstrual painful conditions... etc. - An infusion of leaves and seeds is used in traditional medicines to increase breast milk production in the nursing mothers. Share this article
Origin of percipientClassical Latin percipiens, present participle of percipere: see perceive Origin of percipientLatin percipiēns percipient- present participle of percipere to perceive ; see perceive . - per·cip′i·ence per·cip′i·en·cy (comparative more percipient, superlative most percipient) - Having the ability to perceive, especially to perceive quickly. - (psychology, education, dated) Perceiving events only in the moment, without reflection, as a very young child. - Over time children advance from the percipient stage to the perceptive stage, in which they begin to reflect on the significance of events. From Latin percipient-, root of percipiens, present participle of percipio (“to perceive")
National Rehabilitation Awareness Week is a time to celebrate all of the wonderful ways rehabilitation can help individuals get back to doing the things they love. But what exactly qualifies as “rehab” and what does a rehab professional do? There are several disciplines within rehab and many settings where rehab professionals work including physical therapy and occupational therapy. Physical therapy requires the care and guidance of a licensed physical therapist or PT. PT’s are skilled in performing examinations, diagnosis, and using evidence-based practice to develop a treatment plan. All PT’s are required to have a bachelor’s and master’s degree or clinical doctorate. For many patients, it’s now easier than ever to get physical therapy. You can schedule directly with a PT and we will send the doctor of your choice our initial evaluation with plan of care. We also accept referrals from the following providers: MD’s, PA’s, NP’s, DO’s, PDM’s, DDS’s and DC’s. Physical Therapy Assistants (PTA’s) are licensed clinicians that work under the supervision of a PT to provide care. They hold an associate’s degree from an accredited school and many also have a bachelor’s degree. Both PT’s and PTA’s must complete 30 hours of continuing education every 2 years to maintain their licenses. Similar to physical therapy, the purpose of occupational therapy is to enable people to fulfill, or work towards fulfilling, their potential as occupational beings. Occupational therapists promote function, quality of life and the realization of potential in a person experiencing occupational deprivation, imbalance or alienation. If your life is interrupted due to a developmental problem, orthopedic or neurological injury or disease or having difficulty with normal limitations that occur with aging, occupational therapy may help you gain/regain life skills, adapt the environment to make activities of daily living easier or teach you to compensate in order to be as independent as possible. After earning a master’s degree from an accredited Occupational Therapy program, an OT may work in schools, hospitals or independent clinics. OTs serve persons with hand injuries, after stroke, spinal cord injuries, neurological disease, head injury including concussion, cerebral palsy, Down Syndrome, autism and many more. So if you cannot put on your socks or you can no longer sign your name, Occupational Therapists can help you learn ways to return to self care, home care, work and leisure tasks. Esther Hendler, MOT is an Occupational Therapist at Ochsner Therapy and Wellness in Metairie. To schedule an appointment, please call 504-842-4348.
Items you will need Electric cross cut saw or saw Building a concrete water trough for cattle that is strong and secure is essential to herd health. On average, a cow drinks 12 gallons of water per day, eats one to five pounds of grain per day, and one to three percent of their body weight in forage, such as hay or grass. Building a trough that can accommodate several cows at the same time is ideal, because it promotes herd harmony and allows each cow to get the nutrients they need. Place the tire in the location you have chosen for the trough. A tire that is 42-ply thick is ideal and will hold up in extreme heat and cold. Cut the bead off the top of the tire with a saw to create a wider opening at the top of the trough. The bead is the side of the tire. Leave the bottom and treads of the tire, as they will act as insulators in extreme conditions. Pour the concrete into the tire. It will take about half a yard of concrete to fill the tire. The concrete will adhere to the rubber, forming a strong bond that will resist cracking and leaks. Allow the concrete to dry thoroughly. Pour an additional concrete pad that is four to six inches thick around the tire to insulate it further, if you live in a cold climate. You may also use gravel around the trough to protect the ground from cattle walking on it frequently. - BananaStock/BananaStock/Getty Images
Every year, millions of Americans create original works - books, music, research and other forms of creative expression. All of these creations are intellectual property, and all of them are protected by copyright. For writers, editors, and publishers, understanding copyright issues is essential, especially now that the production of counterfeit and pirated goods, including written works, has become so prevalent. Indeed, according to the OECD, the value of imported fake goods worldwide based on 2016 customs seizure data was $509 billion, up from $461 billion in 2013 (2.5% of world trade). While all U.S. businesses are vulnerable to IP theft, small businesses are often at a particular disadvantage. This is especially true for writers and small publications - with more than 20,500 magazines and over 7,600 daily and weekly newspapers in the nation, there is a wealth of material for IP thieves to steal. And now that the Internet has made copying and distributing protected material easier than ever before, it is critical that you understand the basics of protecting your original work. That's why the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, along with other government agencies, is reaching out to small businesses to help them protect their intellectual property. Our campaign includes a web site, www.stopfakes.gov, specifically designed to help individuals and small businesses learn how to protect themselves in all types of intellectual property. In order to protect yourself from IP theft, it's important to know the basics about your rights. For writers, editors and publishers, this means taking a look at the basics of copyright: what it is, what it protects, and how to secure it. With this information in hand, you should be well prepared to defend yourself and your original works from the threat of IP theft. Source USPTO: Copyright Basics
The Lupus Foundation of America is involved in an initiative named “Ask the Experts” based on a series of educational presentations focusing on several topics related to lupus. This initiative is a free service that allows participants to learn about the disease and ask questions to world’s leading lupus experts. The topic of May 2015 is entitled “Antiphospholipid Syndrome and Lupus Anticoagulant” and is presented by Dr. Elisabet Svenungsson, Associate Professor of Rheumatology at Karolinska University Hospital in Sweden. The presentation can be found here. Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is a severe autoimmune disease in which the body’s own immune system is abnormally activated, leading to an attack on healthy joints and organs, resulting in inflammation, swelling, pain, disability and often in tissue destruction and multi-organ damage. SLE is linked to circulating harmful autoantibodies. Antiphospholipid syndrome (APS) can occur in association with SLE. It corresponds to an autoimmune disorder characterized by a hypercoagulable state induced by antibodies against phospholipids, the major component of all cell membranes. These antibodies can impair normal blood vessel functioning, leading to narrowing and abnormalities of the vessel (vasculopathy), and cause the formation of blood clots (thrombosis) within arteries and veins in several parts of the body such as the lungs, heart, kidneys and brain. The damage it can induce is dependent on the extent and location of the blood clot. APS can cause heart attack and stroke, and also pregnancy morbidities such as miscarriage and premature delivery. Anticoagulant treatment is usually required to manage the disorder. The 2006 “Sidney criteria” classification has established that APS is diagnosed when a patient presents at least one clinical symptom (blood clots or miscarriage event) and one positive laboratory test. These laboratory tests assess the present of antibodies against membrane phospholipids, namely lupus anticoagulant, anti-beta-2 glycoprotein I and anticardiolipin. According to Dr. Svenungsson, 30 to 40% of the SLE patients have antiphospholipid antibodies and less than half actually develop clinical symptoms of APS. Based on the antibody tests, is not possible to accurately predict who is at risk of developing clinical complications, although patients who are positive for all three antibodies are assumed to be at a higher risk. After seeing the presentation, lupus patients, caregivers, loved ones and the population in general are invited to submit a question by no later than May 15, 2015. Of the questions made, 15 will be selected and the answer will be available in June. If you would like to participate, please submit your question here. If you are interested in checking other presented topics in the “Ask the Experts” series, please visit www.lupus.org/ask. We are sorry that this post was not useful for you! Let us improve this post! Tell us how we can improve this post?
[/caption]Take a look at that ceramic toilette or sink in your bathroom. Ever think to yourself that it has something in common with glass, mica, plastic, or even dry air? Ever consider that it might be useful in the construction of capacitors. Probably not, but that’s because this material has a property that is often overlooked. It is a dielectric, meaning a substance that is a poor conductor of electricity, but a good means of electrical storage. Whether we are talking about ceramic, glass, air, or even vacuum (another good dielectric), scientists use what is called the Dielectric Constant, which is the ratio of permittivity of a substance to the permittivity of free space. Or, in layman’s terms, the ratio of the amount of electrical energy stored in a material by an applied voltage, relative to that stored in a vacuum. Confused? Well, perhaps a little explanation is necessary to dispel some of the technical roadblocks to understanding. First of all, a dielectric is defined as an insulating material or a very poor conductor of electric current. When dielectrics are placed in an electric field, practically no current flows in them because, unlike metals, they have no loosely bound, or free, electrons that may drift through the material. Instead, electric polarization occurs, where the positive charges within the dielectric are displaced minutely in the direction of the electric field, and the negative charges are displaced minutely in the direction opposite to the electric field. This slight separation of charge, or polarization, reduces the electric field within the dielectric itself. This property, as already mentioned, makes it a poor conductor, but a good storage medium. In practice, most dielectric materials are solid. But, as already mentioned, dry air is also dielectric, as are most pure, dry gases such as helium and nitrogen. These have a low dielectric constant, whereas things like metal oxides have a high constant. Materials with moderate dielectric constants include ceramics, distilled water, paper, mica, polyethylene, and glass. As the dielectric constant increases, the electric flux density increases (the total amount of electrical charge per area), but only if all other factors remain unchanged. This in turn enables objects of a given size, such as sets of metal plates, to hold their electric charge for long periods of time, and/or to hold large quantities of charge. Because of they constitute good insulating material (or dielectric), metal oxides, dry air and vacuum are often used in the construction of high-energy capacitors as well as radio-frequency transmission lines, where electrical energy is stored at radio frequencies. We’ve also recorded an entire episode of Astronomy Cast all about Electromagnetism. Listen here, Episode 103: Electromagnetism.
We want to thank you for developing the perfect Science vocabulary flash cards to help support our English as a Second Language (ESL) students. We initially ordered them with just our ESL students in mind, but as it turns out they have been helping many of our students who struggle with some of the more difficult science terms. If you are debating about purchasing these cards, you won’t be disappointed. You can tell a lot of thought went into choosing the right photos to help students understand and remember what many of the key science terms mean. Spillane Middle School
I’ve avoided proofs unless absolutely necessary, but the relation between the same eigenvector expressed in two different bases, is important. Given that AS is the linear transformation matrix in standard basis S, and AB is its counterpart in basis B, we can write the relation between them as: where C is the similarity transformation. We’ve seen this relation already; check here if you’ve forgotten about it. Continue reading Matrix Theory: An essential proof for eigenvector computations I return to the first example about basis vectors, when I spoke of linear transformations. The linear transformation we had was this: The operation it performed on basis vectors of the standard basis S was one of scaling, and scaling only. When operated on by a linear transformation matrix, if a vector is only scaled as a consequence, that vector is an eigenvector of the matrix, and the scalar is the corresponding eigenvalue. This is just the definition of an eigenvector, which I rewrite below: Continue reading Matrix Theory: Diagonalisation and Eigenvector Computation Understand that there is nothing extremely special about the standard basis vectors [1,0] and [0,1]. All 2D vectors may be represented as linear combinations of these vectors. Thus, the vector [7,24] may be written as: Continue reading Matrix Theory: Basis change and Similarity transformations
Skilled Help with Writing Faith Essays Reaching across many ages and cultures in addition to many subjects including Literature, History, Anthropology and Philosophy, religion is a varied and contentious area. So it is possible to find a number of different methods to approach the task of writing an excellent essay on spiritual issue. Normally speaking a faith essay uses lay academic instruments that help us comprehend and assess spiritual views and thoughts. These lay tools are employed by research workers of different religions in communicating with each other. The theories, procedures, and assumptions used in the Humanities and Social Sciences can function as useful tools of investigation while composing an essay on spiritual research paper subject or motif. It’s also possible to turn to logic and philosophy to offer techniques for assessing religious texts, or investigate a religious text as literature. Whatever strategy you could select your goal in composing a paper stays unchanged: to expand the knowledge of religious texts and encounters. These suggestions will probably be useful while composing your paper: – contemplate your sources; – consider the present dialogue; – keep in your mind that religious texts need specific citation procedures; – don't let quotes speak for religious.
Wat Thmey, otherwise known as Siem Reap’s Killing Fields, is a site of loss and hope. Many people who visit Cambodia don’t fully grasp how horrific the country’s recent history is until they get here. And, unless they visit Phnom Penh and head to S21 and The Killing Fields, they may just think of Cambodia as another developing country. However, it is much more than that. In 1975, the Khmer Rouge took hold of Cambodia. Over the next three and a half years, they reduced their citizens to nothing, stripping them off their dignity, forcing them to migrate to different ‘zones’ in Cambodia, losing contact with their families and having a direct impact on the death of over two million innocents, which represented 25% of the population at the time. The bodies of the deceased were often dumped together in fields, pagodas and schools. There are many of these ‘Killing Fields’ all over the country. One significant Killing Field in Siem Reap is at Wat Thmey. This pagoda was used as a Khmer Rouge prison to house thousands of prisoners (note: prisoners were mostly innocents who were ‘tried’ on crimes they didn’t commit, and later were Khmer Rouge soldiers who were accused of treason). These prisoners were killed and buried inside two pits and six water wells located about 250 meters south of the prison. It is estimated that around 8,000 people were murdered at this pagoda during the Khmer Rouge regime. In 1995, when Wat Thmey was renovated, a substantial amount of bones and skulls of the victims were placed in a memorial stupa. These are on display so both locals and tourists can visit and remember the tragic history of Cambodia. Nowadays you can find a photo exhibition at Wat Thmey, a combined project from US Aid and the Documentation Center of Cambodia. This exhibition shows photos of the forced transfer of Cambodians during the Khmer Rouge period. The vision of this exhibition is that visitors are actively engaged in the study, reflection and memory of victims and survivors. There are four other exhibitions at four other locations around Cambodia, so the memories of those who died during the regime and during the forced relocations is kept alive. Although it may be confronting, I would highly recommend a visit to Wat Thmey. This horrendous history needs to be remembered, and we need to pay respect to those who pointlessly lost their lives. |Opening Hours||Daily from 6am to 6pm| |Location||Road to Angkor Wat (across from Charming City), Siem Reap|
Big data is a hot topic right now. Now, more than ever, companies are using big data to help them in their business, and big data analysts are in short supply. Getting trained to analyze and work with big data will make you an asset to any company you work for. Big data is a tool of the present, and will continue to grow into the future. Don’t get left behind. Jump into a big data course. 1. What is big data? Big data is a large data set which, when analyzed, can give information about trends and patterns in people’s behaviour. The term big data can be deceiving though, it really does not have anything to do with the size of the data, but rather what the company does with the data they have. Taking a course in big data will help you understand exactly what “big data” means and how to identify it. 2. What do companies do with big data? Companies are able to use big data to follow trends in their business. For example, it can help retail businesses to know which products to put on sale, and when. Companies have trained big data analysts find the trends and patterns in the data they collect. Big data provides so much information, that companies are now doing what is called prescriptive analytics. Offering the customer what they want, before they want it. In this case, analysts are able to find out what customers like, and share new things with them that they know, based on the data, the customers will like. 3. What is the future of big data? Big data is expected to grow, change and adapt. This is not the kind of thing you want to be left behind on. Jobs around big data will change as things become more and more automated, and as more data is collected in new ways. The reality though is that nobody really know what the future of big data is, exactly. People can guess – more data will be collected and robots will take over – but the best way to handle all the changes to come is to learn about them now and grow with the industry as it continues to develop. Big data, as a concept, is rather new – become a pioneer of the big data of tomorrow. 4. What will a big data course teach? Learning how to work with and analyze big data means working with coding and programming, and working with different data processing software. The big data courses should teach the basics of using the most important programs and software, as well as making sure students have a solid understanding of what big data is, and how that data will actually be used – specifically, what they will do to make that data make sense, or make it useful. 5. Why take a course in big data? Big data is a pretty new concept, so new, in fact, that a lot of people still believe it can’t actually be defined. Data shows that jobs in big data really only started popping up around 2011, which isn’t so long ago. As of right now, the industry has a shortage of big data analysts, and of people who can make sense of the data and really figure out what it means. Because big data is so new, it means that there are a lot of opportunities within the industry. Many businesses are looking for big data analysts for the first time ever, not trying to fill an old position. Alternatively, freelancing is new and interesting way to work in big data.
What do we mean by disability? Under the Disability Discrimination Act 2005 (updated by Equality Act 2010) a disabled student may be a student with: - specific Learning Difficulties (SpLD) including dyslexia, dyspraxia, dyscalculia, Attention Deficit Disorder (ADD) - mental Health difficulties (including anxiety and depressive disorders, psychological and psychiatric illness) - long term medical conditions such as arthritis, epilepsy, diabetes, asthma, chronic fatigue syndrome - autistic Spectrum Disorders such as Asperger’s’ Syndrome - sensory impairments - neurological conditions such as Multiple Sclerosis, Cerebral Palsy - mobility difficulties A person can be defined as disabled if their physical or mental impairment: - has a substantial effect on them - is long term and has lasted or is expected to last 12 months or more - has an adverse effect on his/her ability to carry out normal day to day activities Sharing information and confidentiality Many disabled people have impairments that are not visible, e.g. medical conditions or mental health issues. For a range of reasons, a student or a member of staff might share information with a staff member or a line manager, but ask that this information is kept confidential. Due to the sensitive nature of information relating to disability issues, it is imperative that staff maintain appropriate levels of confidentiality. Staff should work with students and colleagues in accordance with the law as set out on The Data Protection Act 1998, and within existing University and professional bodies' policies and Codes of Practice. Students and staff need to feel that any information they give will be treated with respect and only made available to others if they (the student or colleague) have consented to sharing information or if there are exceptional circumstances which override confidentiality. These exceptional circumstances can be summarized as: - where the student or colleague represents a danger to the safety of others or causes them fear or severe distress or where the student or colleague is affecting the safety and well-being of people in general - where the student or colleague actually attempts to seriously harm themselves or others, or is threatening to do so in the immediate future - where the law or University policies requires certain information to be disclosed to others Under the Single Equality Act, once a person has shared that they have an impairment that falls within the definition of disability under the Act, the University is deemed to have knowledge of this. The University then has a legal obligation to make any 'reasonable adjustment' necessary for that person to ensure that they are not disadvantaged. Request not to share information Making your documents accessible The University of Bradford has a legal l responsibility under the Equality Act 2010 to ensure that electronic information is accessible to all. To gain further knowledge of the accessibility issues associated with online documents and to develop skills to create accessible documents, you may find the following documents useful: Making your documents accessible guidelines It is essential that disabled students get the reasonable adjustments they need and are entitled to while they are out on placement. This is to make sure that they have every opportunity to succeed and to make sure that they are not disadvantaged for disability related reasons. Placement procedure guidelines Placement procedure process map Placement support agreement form Request not to share information with placement Health, Wellbeing and Fitness for Study It is essential that the University adopts a pro-active and positive approach to promoting and managing the physical and mental health of our students. Where there are concerns about a student’s engagement, behaviours or academic performance that are a result of impairment, underlying health or mental health difficulty, it is important that we take consistent, co-ordinated and appropriate steps to support that student.
Yes you can, but it will be like a text file. For example: you save a file with an extension rndm. So on the desktop the file looks like: example.rndm. When you click on it, it will say: Windows doesn't know how to open this file. Please select a program and you can open it with your TextEditor or IDE. It will open just like a text document. So, there is really is no point for changing up the file extension (Although, I guess it makes you feel cool). Also, if you change your file extension to .exe or .vbs ... They are already predefined so you might lose all your data in the file. That is why it is safe to save text files with no extension, because libraries like <iostream> etc.. are just "Files" with no extension. I believe this correct but if someone else with more knowledge could come in and help that would be nice. In linux/unix systems, file extensions don't matter as much. You can either have them or do without them. Windows on the other hand is quite fussy about this. Filename extensions are really just the type of encoding the content of your file is in. So, if you are making a new programming language, you have to find a way to teach your computer the encoding and syntax of your program then create an extension for it which the computer will recognize.
- By Kizzy Lewis-Phillips - Posted Wednesday, August 3, 2011 Dental Health for Kids Practicing proper dental health for kids is an important part of enjoying good dental health when they become adults. This program will share the importance of practicing good dental health habits in a fun and enjoyable manner that will delight kids. Everyone will have fun as they learn how to prevent tooth decay. Wednesday, August 10th at 11:00 am
It may seem odd, but some of us use peptides without even realizing it. Insulin is probably the best example we can give. Insulin is the most commonly know peptide that is used to regulate the metabolism of carbohydrates, fats and protein by promoting the absorption of glucose from the blood into liver, fat and skeletal muscle cells. In recent years, medical research has found many ways in which the power of peptides can be harnessed to speed up and improve healing, and to address a number of other health concerns, including everything from maximizing physical performance, assist with weight loss, reduce inflammation, memory loss and anti-aging therapies or to increase muscle mass. But before we get ahead of ourselves, what are peptides, and how can we use them? What are peptides? If you already know proteins, peptides are basically the same thing, just smaller in size. Proteins are very large structures composed of many amino acids. They have a very complex role, and some of them make up complete body structures. For example, the muscle tissue is filled with millions of protein filaments. Each one of these filaments is impressively large on a molecular scale. In contrast, peptides are very small. They are also made up of amino acids, but only a handful of them. Their role is also simple compared to large proteins. Most peptides work as messenger molecules. They travel long distances in the bloodstream to communicate with distant cells and help your body function in unison. Some may act like neurotransmitters, while others may act like hormones. They bind to receptors on the cell surface and tell other cells and molecules what to do. Peptides are very specific which makes them safe, well tolerated and more importantly allow them to control and influence how our bodies react to physical exercise and diet. As of January 2015, there were over 60 US FDA-approved peptide medications, 140 peptide drugs being evaluated in clinical trials, and 500 in pre-clinical development. & peptide therapy? As we age, production of essential amino acids and peptides decreases. As a result, our bodies begin to show signs of aging and cease to perform at an optimal level. Peptide therapy is the targeted use of peptides to produce a specific reaction in the body. Peptides have a wide range of therapeutic applications. People with different health and performance goals often consider therapeutic peptides. Since peptides are small and straightforward, they can be developed quite easily and go directly to where they are needed. They go directly to stimulate a specific receptor or trigger a particular function, making them practical, selective, and very safe to use. When people suffer from issues like chronic back, major joint pain or generalized pain from injuries, inflammation, immune deficiencies, decreased natural HGH levels and decreased libido, doctors typically focus on simply covering up the issue. Peptide therapy treats the root cause of these issues and helps you find ways to maintain a healthier, more energized, pain-free lifestyle. Stop letting age or injury hold you back! Health benefits of peptides Insulin was first used as a treatment for diabetes back in 1920. Since then, we have used this and other peptides as a part of medical treatments. But nowadays, we have many different peptides, and even healthy patients can benefit from their health properties. They mimic normal body functions and trigger a healthy and natural response in the body. For instance: - CJC 1295/Ipamorelin: This is a growth hormone secretagogue. Simply put, it stimulates the pituitary gland to synthesize and release the growth hormone. While exogenous growth hormone can correct growth deficiencies, this peptide promotes muscle growth, weight loss, increase cellular repair, regeneration, collagen production, bone mineralization, promotes healthier sleep and improves energy levels. - BPC 157: Not all peptides need to be injected, and this is a suitable example. It is a Body Protection Compound that accelerates wound healing (muscle, ligament, tendon, nerve) and prevents tissue damage and has been shown to decrease pain in damaged areas. It is also helpful to treat gastrointestinal inflammatory problems such as Crohn’s disease and ulcerative colitis. Protects and heals inflamed intestinal epithelium (leaky gut). Protects liver from toxic insults (alcohol, antibiotics, etc) and promotes healing. There is even evidence of neuroprotection and nerve regeneration (improves memory & focus) - GHK-Cu: Peptide benefits are also useful for the cosmetic industry, and this is an example. GHK-Cu has a variety of roles in the human body including promoting healthier skin (tightens loose skin and reverse thinning of aged skin) Repairs protective skin barrier proteins, Improves skin firmness, elasticity, and clarity. Reduces fine lines, depth of wrinkles, and improves structure of aged skin. How do they work? All of these peptides are made up of amino acids. They are organic compounds that feature an amine and a carboxyl group. Peptides contain somewhere between 2 and 50 amino acids. If they have more than 50, they will be called polypeptides and proteins if they have more than 100. Once the peptide is assembled, it falls into different categories depending on its functions. Some of them are enzymatic peptides, which bind a target substance and modify its chemical structure. In contrast, hormonal peptides will stimulate a cell receptor and bring messages to different parts of the body. There are many types and benefits, and the best part is that peptides can be combined in many different ways to treat ailments, prevent health problems, and help you achieve your wellness goals. At Fitat60 we are now working on developing a range of products for our customers. We are finding and developing the best products and programs for people over 60. No corners cut.
Rosa Luxemburg (1871-1919) was a revolutionary socialist author and educator in the German Social Democratic Party before World War I. When the party supported the German government, she broke with it and later founded the Independent Social Democratic Party and the Communist Party of Germany. In 1919 the social democratic government instructed the elite paramilitary unit (GKSD) to suppress the communists, and they captured Luxemburg and Karl Liebknecht in Berlin; both were dead within hours. Luxemburg was shot and shoved into a canal. "The Beginning" (an excerpt) Against the Current, No. 200, May/June 2019 Marxist Theory and the Proletariat Against the Current, No. 197, November/December 2018
Different Types of Hearing Loss Hearing loss can be experienced in varying degrees, such as mild, moderate, moderately-severe, severe or profound. Additionally, this loss can also vary depending on pitches or frequencies. A series of hearing tests can determine the amount of loss you experience compared to an average of many other adult listeners with typical hearing. The volume of sounds you hear is measured in decibels (dB), 15-20 dB being the softest whisper and 120 dB being a jet engine. The softest sounds one can hear are called thresholds. Normal hearing thresholds for adults are considered 0-25 dB across the range of frequencies tested. Speech testing is also conducted as a part of this series of evaluations and helps to assess the levels of particular words you can hear clearly. These tests can help determine the type of hearing loss you’re experiencing, which can be categorized conductive, sensorineural or mixed. Conductive hearing loss Conductive hearing loss occurs when there is a problem with the way sound is conducted to the inner ear and a structure called the cochlea. The problem may lie in the ear canal, eardrum (tympanic membrane) or the middle ear (ossicles and Eustachian tube). The inner ear and auditory nerve remain unaffected in this type of hearing loss. Symptoms for conductive hearing loss are similar to the other types; however, individuals may complain of sounds being muffled or far too quiet. Some causes of conductive hearing loss can include: - Outer or middle ear infections - Complete earwax blockage - Deterioration of the middle ear bones (ossicles) - Otosclerosis, the fixation of the ossicles - Perforated tympanic membrane or a hole in the eardrum - Absence of the outer ear or middle ear structures Conductive hearing loss may be temporary or permanent, depending on the source of the problem. Medical management can correct some cases of conductive hearing loss, while hearing instruments may be a recommended treatment option in long-standing or permanent cases. Sensorineural hearing loss Sensorineural hearing loss occurs when there is a problem with the sensory receptors of the hearing system, specifically in the cochlea of the inner ear or auditory nerve. The majority of sensorineural hearing loss occurs as a result of an abnormality or damage to the hair cells in the cochlea. This abnormality prevents sound from being transmitted to the brain normally, which results in a hearing loss. Individuals with sensorineural hearing loss may hear muffled speech, suffer from tinnitus (or ringing in the ears), have difficulty hearing in background noise or clarity of speech problems. There are a number of causes of sensorineural hearing loss, including: - Congenital: These hair cells have been abnormal since birth, which is considered a congenital condition. - Damage to hair cells: A deficit in hearing also occurs when the cells are damaged as a result of genetics, infection, drugs, trauma or over-exposure to noise (late-onset or acquired). - Presbycusis: Age-related hearing loss Sensorineural hearing losses are generally permanent and may remain stable or worsen over time. Routine hearing tests are needed to monitor the hearing loss. Hearing aids are the most common and successful treatment, allowing hearing professionals to adjust settings as needs change. Mixed hearing loss Mixed hearing loss occurs when a person has a sensorineural hearing loss in combination with a conductive hearing loss. This means there is a problem in the inner ear as well as in the outer and/or middle ear. The conductive hearing loss may be temporary or permanent, depending on the source of the problem. Mixed hearing loss can sometimes be treated with medical management and hearing aids are a common treatment recommendation.
The North Carolina Department of Public Instruction (NC DPI) sets out that in order for a student with a learning disability to get special education services and protections he or she must first be found eligible for special education in the category of Specific Learning Disabilities. The process and criteria in North Carolina are found in the NC Policies and the Addendum. North Carolina has recently changed how students with a learning disability are evaluated and identified in order to get special education services and protections. An explanation of these changes is provided in Current Advocacy Issues. Parents’ rights in the special education process are provided in the NC DPI parents’ rights handbook. Last Updated – April 2017
Dear Sonoma County Neighbor: Did you know that our Sonoma County Department of Health Services wants to add fluoridation chemicals to our public tap water in an attempt to prevent cavities in some of our lower-income kids who currently lack access to good dental care? Did you know that water fluoridation, no matter how well-intentioned, is not effective at preventing tooth decay, and is not safe for our health, the health of our kids, or the health of our environment? Everyone in Sonoma County deserves access to safe, effective, individualized dental care. But fluoridation of the entire public water supply without regard for need or safety is the wrong way to deliver dental care to our community. Here are just some of the reasons why fluoridating our water is not a good idea, brought to you by the researchers at Fluoride Action Network: It's Not Safe: Recent Science Confirms Serious Health Risks The Sonoma County government has identified hydrofluorosilicic acid, an unpurified Class One hazardous waste byproduct of the phosphate fertilizer industry, as the fluoridation chemical it would add to Sonoma County's drinking water. Major scientific studies from the National Academy of Sciences, Harvard University and other health organizations and universities have proven serious uncertainties and risks from fluoridated drinking water, including decreased childhood IQ, kidney and thyroid disorders, and skeletal fluorosis. Even the ADA a warns against mixing infant formula with fluoridated water to avoid excessive exposure for infants and their developing bodies and brains. And what's more, water fluoridation poses a major risk because there's no way to control the dose of these chemicals. That's because it's impossible to regular how much water people drink -- and therefore, how much fluoridation chemicals they ingest. This poses an inevitable risk that some people will ingest far too much fluoride, while others won't get the optimal dose proponents say they need. This is not a safe way to prevent cavities in our children. It's Not Effective: Studies Show Water Fluoridation Does Not Work Study after study around the world shows that ingesting fluoride internally is not effective for preventing cavities. That's because fluoride works topically -- it needs to be put directly on the teeth to be effective. Across the United States cities that have been fluoridated for decades are still dealing with dental health problems. And around the world there is no difference in the rate of tooth decay in countries that have used fluoridation chemicals compared to those that have not. It's Not Practical: 99% of Fluoridation Chemicals Would be Wasted The public water supply is the least efficient delivery mechanism for any substance intended for human ingestion, let alone controversial fluoridation chemicals. 99% of our tap water in Sonoma County goes down the drain, and just a fraction of the remaining 1% that's used for drinking actually reaches the kids who are most in need of better dental care. That's because many of the lower-income kids in Sonoma County who are suffering from tooth decay don't drink tap water, according to the 2013 SMILE report. There are Better Alternatives For Kids' Teeth Increasing access to dental care, prevention and education is the only real solution to improving kids' dental health. Instead of spending millions of dollars to begin fluoridating the public water, and $350,000 or more a year on fluoridation chemicals that are largely wasted, why don't we invest that money in directly dental care that actually reaches at-risk kids? Want to know more? Go to our Get the Facts page Fluoridation is an obsolete measure that's simply not worth the risk. Let's come together to find safe, effective ways to solve dental health problems. Read more and get links to videos and other resources on our Get the Facts pages.
As a teenager, it is very important to have a good diet plan in order to have a better physical and mental health. In the present scenario, fast food and unhealthy diet plans have led teenagers towards obesity. What you eat has a great impact on your lifestyle and daily activities. Your food act as a fuel for your body, it energizes you and makes you able to move, think and breathe. So, being a teenager, it is very necessary to include healthy foods in your regular diet plans. Here are some healthy diet plans for teenagers. Eat your breakfast like a king. A glass of juice or milk with cereals and a vegetable sandwich made of whole wheat bread is always a good option. For non-vegetarian persons, a vegetable sandwich can be replaced by a ham sandwich or either chicken. Avoid over eating but eat enough to fill yourself until the time of lunch. For the variety, you can add white egg omelette, a bowl of oats with a fruit shake, couple of toast and smoothie, boiled eggs and some fruits. Enrich your breakfast with a combination of fiber, protein, vitamins and minerals. Combine your cereals with fruit to give it a tangy twist. Have a good diet at the lunch. You can have salads, baked beans or grilled chicken. Tacos (a Mexican dish consisting of a fried tortilla (a thin, flat pancake of cornmeal or flour, eaten hot or cold, typically with a savory filling), which is typically folded, filled with various mixtures, such as seasoned meat, beans, lettuce, and tomatoes) stuffed with lettuce and cheese can be used as the source of protein. Beef steaks with tofu and chickpea salad can be a very nutritious lunch to have. Avoid junks such as burger, pizzas, wafers and soft drinks. For the variety add fish, ham, spinach and soups to your meal. Try to have less fatty food with more and more fiber or proteins. Take a light meal at the evening snacks, have fruits and raw vegetables. Peanut butter can be another good option. Turkey sandwich with a glass of juice or the coffee is always preferred. For the variety add Greek yogurt, with vegetables, tortilla and spicy popcorn. Don’t eat too much in the snacks and keep it fresh. Dinner is the last meal of the day so it needs to be light. Eat less in the dinner and go for a walk after it. You can have chicken breast with sprouts, roasted chicken avocado and chicken fingers. For vegetarians, lemony lentil soup and a spinach pasta can be so yummy and healthy to eat. For the mental fitness of the body, vitamins and minerals such as iron and calcium are vital elements. And for physical health protein along with other vital minerals and vitamins are very important. The foods mentioned in above diet plans enrich in all these essential nutritional parameters. Apart from the diet plan, physical exercise is also important for physical as well as mental health. Do exercise daily for at least 30 minutes or involve yourself in physical sports such as basketball, football or rugby. Follow the above diet plan and have a healthy lifestyle without even compromising in taste.
Name: Ryan M. As both an aspiring artist and scientist, I have always been perplexed by the contradiction between the two as far as primary colours are concerned.In science the primary colours are red, green and blue. This makes sense as it can be proved with a ray box. However, in art the primary colours are said to be blue, red and yellow and red which is believable as with these colours all other colours can be The theory of color is NOT straightforward. It involves chemistry, physics, physiology, and psychology. In fact it is possible to create color from "black and white" transparencies exposed using different filters!! And the now common place digital cameras produce colors from electronic pixels that have no intrinsic color at all. What is a poor artist to do?? I have just finished reading the best presentation of this complicated subject from an artist's perspective, which you will find very readable and fascinating. The book is titled: "Bright Earth: Art and the Invention of Color" by Philip Ball [ISBN 0-226-03628-6] The University of Chicago Press. Fascinating reading for scientist and artist alike. The first thing to realize is that the number of "primary" colors depends on the type of creature that is doing the looking. Normal cones in the human eye sense light in broad color bands in the red, green and blue-violet regions of the spectrum. These bands overlap a great deal. Thus, for humans, mixing various amounts of three colors of light (red, green and blue) will produce all colors that can be perceived. That is for an additive source like a computer monitor or TV screen that produces The human eye is sensitive to broad bands of light wavelengths, and thus the eye is not a spectrometer: it interpolates colors depending which of the three cones are receiving light. For example, there are two ways to make "yellow" light. 1) use equal amounts of red and green light. These stimulate the red and green cones, and the brain sees "yellow". 2) use a wavelength of light that is between red and green (about 565nm). Because the response of the red and green cones overlaps, this single color also stimulates both the red and green cones. The brain sees "yellow in both There are three types of color blindness, depending on which color sensor is For pictures using paint or ink, it gets a little more complicated because what happens to the light before it strikes the eye is a two-step process. Inks are subtractive. They block various colors of light and only the colors that are NOT blocked are reflected from the paper to your eyes. For example, yellow ink absorbs blue light, but allows red and green light to reflect from the paper. The human eye sees yellow which is red and green. Cyan, which is a sort of green/blue, absorbs red, but lets blue and green light reflect from the paper. So if you put both yellow and cyan ink on the paper, only green light gets through to the eye. Similarly, magenta is a purplish-red color that absorbs green. Dogs seem to have only two kinds of color receptors in the eye. They see fewer separate colors. Many birds have four or more types of cones (the extra one is ultraviolet). They see potentially many more colors than humans, depending on how the brain perceives this color. Birds would need a TV with four primary colors, or paper with four different kinds of inks for their full color vision. More information can be found in encyclopedias. The easiest thing to do is point you to the following web site which I believe does a good job describing the differences between Red-Green-Blue, Red-Blue-Yellow, and Cyan-Magenta-Yellow and what is meant by Primary Colors. The colors of paint and crayons do not add color to the light we see; they absorb light from it. A "perfect" set of paint colors is in fact magenta, yellow, and cyan. For most human eyes, magenta is very close to red and cyan is very close to blue. Yellow is yellow. Red, yellow, and blue will work almost as well as magenta, yellow, and cyan. Also, red, yellow, and blue are all well known colors, easier to talk about. Magenta paint will remove green from white light, reflecting back red and blue. Yellow removes blue light, reflecting back red and green. Cyan absorbs red, reflecting green and blue. If you combine cyan and yellow paint, red and blue are absorbed. In white light, this reflects only green. This is why blending blue and yellow paint gives you green. Math, Science, Engineering Illinois Central College The spectral primaries are pure colors and deal with light sources. The light impinging on an object is, for example, red. No matter what "color" the object might appear when illuminated with white light it will appear red when the light source is pure red (assuming at least some of the light is reflected instead of absorbed). In are you very rarely have light of a pure color. Instead, an object appears red because it absorbs all colors except red. The red light is reflected to our eyes. This difference is why when you mix red, green, and blue light sources you perceive white light but if you mix red green and blue colors you get black. The red color absorbs green and blue, green absorbs red and blue and blue absorbs red and green. The net result is all colors of light get absorbed and you perceive black. Click here to return to the Physics Archives Update: June 2012
Also found in: Dictionary, Thesaurus, Medical, Legal, Acronyms, Wikipedia. Related to artificial respiration: artificial ventilation artificial respiration,any measure that causes air to flow in and out of a person's lungs when natural breathing is inadequate or ceases, as in respiratory paralysis, drowning, electric shock, choking, gas or smoke inhalation, or poisoning. Respiration can be taken over by an artificial lung (especially in respiratory paralysis), a pulmotor, or any other type of mechanical respirator (see resuscitatorresuscitator , device used to revive a person whose normal breathing has been disrupted. Several types are in wide use. The automatic tank resuscitator consists of a face mask that fits tightly over the nose and mouth and is connected by a tube to one or more tanks of gas. ..... Click the link for more information. ). In emergency situations, however, when no professional help is available, rescuers undertake the mouth-to-mouth or mouth-to-nose method of artificial respiration. First, any foreign material is swept out of the mouth with the hand. The victim is placed on his back, with the head tilted backward and chin pointing upward so that the tongue does not block the throat. The reviver's mouth is then placed tightly over the victim's mouth or nose, with the victim's nostrils or mouth held shut. For a small child or infant, the reviver places his mouth firmly over the mouth and nose. The reviver takes a deep breath and blows into the victim's mouth, nose, or both. If there is no exchange of air, the reviver checks the position of the head. If there is still no exchange, the victim should be turned on his side and rapped between the shoulder blades to dislodge any foreign matter that may be blocking the air passages. A child can be held by the ankles and rapped between the shoulder blades. The reviver stops blowing when the chest expands, turns his head away, and listens for exhalation. If the victim is an adult, blowing should be vigorous, at the rate of about 12 breaths per minute. A child's breaths should be shallower, about 20 per minute, and an infant's breaths should come in short puffs. When victims vomit, they must be turned on their side and the airway cleaned before continuing artificial respiration. If the victim has had the larynx removed, the above method is used, but the reviver must breathe into the stoma (surgical opening made in front of neck for breathing). Breathing into the subject should be continued until natural breathing resumes or until professional help arrives. Since the heart often stops beating when breathing is interrupted, cardiopulmonary resuscitationcardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR), emergency procedure used to treat victims of cardiac and respiratory arrest. CPR can be done in a hospital with drugs and special equipment or as a first-aid technique. ..... Click the link for more information. (CPR) is typically administered simultaneously. This entails compressing the chest above the heart at 60 or more thrusts per minute, with two breaths being administered after every 15 chest thrusts. See first aidfirst aid, immediate and temporary treatment of a victim of sudden illness or injury while awaiting the arrival of medical aid. Proper early measures may be instrumental in saving life and ensuring a better and more rapid recovery. ..... Click the link for more information. . artificial respiration[¦ärd·ə¦fish·əl ‚res·pə′rā·shən] The maintenance of breathing by artificial ventilation, in the absence of normal spontaneous respiration; effective methods include mouth-to-mouth breathing and the use of a respirator. 1. any of various methods of restarting breathing after it has stopped, by manual rhythmic pressure on the chest, mouth-to-mouth breathing, etc. 2. any method of maintaining respiration artificially, as by use of an iron lung
My head is still full of all the sights and textures of Quilt Market in Kansas City. I'm processing all the trends I saw there and considering how they translate to the kind of quilting and fiber art we do here in the Quilting Daily community. One trend that stood out—literally—was dimension in fabric crafts. Fabric designers and fiber artists showed finished fabric art projects that were stuffed, twisted, and shaped into objects. I saw more trapunto in modern quilt designs than I have in a while. |Triangular-based fiber art pyramids by C. June Barnes. Speaking of modern quilts, even if they didn't have dimension, many of these graphic quilts featured hexagons, octagons, and triangles in stark relief, so they seem to pop out. In quilt art, there are many ways to fold, piece, stitch, and manipulate fabric into dimensional shapes. A new book on the subject, Exploring Dimensional Quilt Art: Stitch, Fold, Embellish by C. June Barnes shows you how to create almost any kind of spatial dimension out of a stitched or quilted surface. Spatial dimension can be achieved in the following ways, writes June: Manipulating the surface of the quilted plane to achieve depth. Adding to the surface to increase the depth. Manipulating the quilted plane or layers through folding, wrapping, curling and so on to either construct a shape or create depth. Constructing objects through various means, the outer layer being a quilted surface. June draws a lot of her inspiration from nature as well geometry and offers templates, instructions, and examples for virtually any kind of dimensional shape you can imagine. Here are her instructions for turning a quilted surface into a triangular base (or pyramid). |Triangular base template from Exploring Dimensional Quilt Art. 1. Start with an equilateral triangle that has sides roughly four times the finished height you require. 2. Mark the centers of each side of the triangle and mark them a, b, and c. 3. Draw a line between these points, creating a triangle within the triangle with sides a-b, b-c, and c-a. 4. Mark points that are half of the outside points x, y, and z. 5. To construct, finish all edges and join sides a-x to a-y, b-y to b-z, and c-z to c-x. Fold points outward along lines x, y, and z. These dimensional shapes can be made into all kinds of fiber art, such as containers and vessels. They can be used as embellishments (a great way to make use of fabric scraps) or joined together to make a larger fiber art quilt or sculpture. Anyone looking to take their fabric art to a new dimension will find inspiration and practical advice in Exploring Dimensional Quilt Art. P.S. Have you been adding dimension to your fiber art projects? How? Share your experiments with the community below.
Boethius was a good man, but a tyrant was about to kill him. This is not inspiriting and Boethius despaired until Philosophy came to the rescue. If you major in philosophy, one thing you can point out to skeptical parents is that if a tyrant imprisons you, the training will help. Philosophy combined with Christian theology (as it was in Boethius) does help. Christianity provides the hope, data through revelation, and philosophy shows that this hope is rational. Nobody pushed to the bottom emotionally can use the promise of Disney or any other kind of magic. We need good news as real as the bad news. If hope is not sturdy, then it does no good and philosophy makes hope invincible. Eventually, the presumptuous tyrant killed Boethius, but the old philosopher’s hope did not disappoint him. The unjust ruler made Boethius a world class writer, Boethius is remembered mostly for the book he wrote in prison, and prepared his soul for death. Everyone dies, but the the tyrant’s foolishness was to give philosopher time to prepare and so die with dignity. What did Boethius learn in prison? Boethius says that he could believe that though the particulars of his life made no sense, the plan of his life was in God’s hands. At first, the philosopher could not see the plan in what was happening to him. Philosophy did not come with cheesy cheer nor with a detailed picture of “what God was doing.” Giving us The Plan in enough detail to “justify” God is impossible to develop for some very good reasons having to do with ethics, philosophy, and science. Ethically, God cannot betray His dealings with any individual to self-justify. Philosophically, God has knowledge that is too extensive to share, but would be necessary for us to learn in order to know His plan. This is true, because science reveals a radically interconnected world. Instead of attempting the impossible (as Word of Faith preachers do), Philosophy demonstrated to Boethius two things: - He could not possibly understand God’s plan. - He reasonably could trust God’s goodness and so His plan. God knows all, but, thank God, He does not tell all. He knows our innermost hearts and God keeps that to Himself. He is not so insecure that He must tell His dealings with us to justify himself to a Twitter atheist. Over time, and time keeps going, God heals, mends, and gives hope. Boethius is taught that God is timeless. He exists outside of the chronological dimension and so sees all in His Now. Today for God is the day of Creation, Fall, Redemption, and Completion. God knows. We can freely choose, because God is never foreseeing what we do, but seeing.* Philosophy cannot give us the plan, but can point us to the Good, the very nature of God. If we see the Good, as Plato suggests in Symposium, and we see God’s nature, then we can trust God. We are told there is a plan to heal the evils done by free will and by contingency in the natural world. We know God does not lie, because God is good. This knowledge gives us reasonable hope and this substantial hope is the faith that saves. God, have mercy on me a sinner. *Start reading a defense of this idea in Stump and Kretzmann. I was honored to hear both philosophers present these ideas. Eleonore Stump is the very model of a good philosopher.
Build It, and They Will Code: “Hour of Code” Campaign Gets Kids Excited to Program All kids care about these days is texting, right? Hour of Code proves the stereotype wrong by inspiring kids to code. By Betsy Mikel (Contributing Writer, Women 2.0) When you ask kids what they want to be when they grow up, it’s unlikely they’ll respond “computer scientist.” Is anyone surprised? According to Code.org, nine out of 10 schools don’t offer computer science classes. Yet computer science is the top-paying college degree and computer programmer jobs are growing at twice the rate of the national average. To help inspire the next generation of tech-savvy computer scientists, Code.org is driving students and teachers to The Hour of Code website this week. The campaign aims to introduce students of all levels to coding with fun, interactive tutorials. The Hour of Code kicked off the beginning of this week as part of computer science education week, and already millions of students from kindergarten through 12th grade have logged on to learn the basics of computer programming. The “anybody can do it” message behind the campaign has been endorsed by President Obama, tech moguls Mark Zuckerberg and Bill Gates, celebrities like Ashton Kutcher, and musicians like will.i.am. “Don’t just buy a new video game… make one. Don’t just download the latest app… help design it. Don’t just play on your phone… program it,” said President Obama. No one’s born a computer scientist, but with a little hard work and some math and science, just about anyone can become one.” The campaign has expanded beyond classrooms with both Apple and Microsoft offering sessions in their retail stores. And believe it or not, kids are even logging onto the website at home to learn more. According to the Washington Post, the number of participants in Hour of Code is outpacing the organizer’s expectations, and Code.org estimates 15 million students will have taken a coding course by the end of the week. Even better news is that 60 percent of the participating students so far have been girls, co-founder Hadi Partovi told Washington Post. “Two days ago, the number of girls doing computer science in this country was 18 percent,” Partovi said. “This is amazing.” Have you seen other campaigns or initiatives that get kids excited to code? Betsy Mikel is a freelance copywriter and content strategist who helps brands, businesses and entrepreneurs tell their stories. A journalist at heart, her curiosity drives her to find something new to learn every single day. Follow her on Twitter at @betsym.
New data from several studies evaluating new techniques for early diagnosis and treatment of lung cancer are being presented at the first European Multidisciplinary Conference on Thoracic Oncology (EMCTO) in Lugano, Switzerland (1-3 May 2009). "Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer deaths worldwide and also in Europe. One of the reasons for this is that symptoms of lung cancer are very often lacking or occur only late in the course of the disease," said Prof Rudolf M. Huber from the University of Munich in Germany. "The prognosis of lung cancer patients is very dependent on how advanced their disease is. In stage I for example, where the tumour has not yet spread, 5-year-survival rates are about 70%; whereas in stage IV, where it has metastasised to other parts of the body, survival is about 1%. Even for patients with locally advanced tumours, survival over 5 years is only about 10%. Therefore every effort should be undertaken to diagnose early in the course of the disease." "Developing better tools for distinguishing between lung cancer and other lung diseases will help us offer greater hope for patients," added Prof Huber. In one study presented at the conference, Italian researchers compare two computed tomography techniques for diagnosing indeterminate lung lesions, finding that a form of single-photon emission computed tomography could offer an alternative method in situations where positron emission tomography is not available. In another abstract, UK scientists report that a new approach to diagnosis that ensures a patient has had a chest CT scan before they attend a clinic has the potential to reduce the time between their first abnormal chest X-ray and final diagnosis. Also during the conference, Greek investigators suggest that they may have found a new factor that will help indicate a patient's prognosis at the time of diagnosis. Their work indicates that the expression of specific cell surface molecules on tumour cells correlates with clinical parameters. The results "could comprise a promising prognostic factor in lung carcinomas, thus presenting exciting possibilities for the future." |Contact: ESMO Press Office| European Society for Medical Oncology
From pv magazine USA Achieving the US government’s decarbonization goals of 100% carbon-free electricity generation by 2035 and net-zero economy-wide carbon emissions by 2050 will require the deployment of record levels of renewable technologies. The most common solar technologies to date are crystalline silicon and cadmium telluride (CdTe), the costs of which have dropped notedly in recent years. The US Department of Energy Solar Energy Technologies Office (SETO) said in order to meet 2035 targets, solar deployment has to double in the next three years, and ultimately ramp up to 100 GW by 2035. While most development will use silicon and CdTe, SETO sees potential in nascent technologies like halide perovskites. SETO finds that the power conversion efficiencies (PCE) of halide perovskites (over 25% in single-junction cells and over 29% in tandem cells with silicon) show promise. One advantage of perovskites is that they can be easily manufactured in high volume. However, significant technological challenges must be addressed before perovskites are ready for commercial power sector markets. In a recent Energy Focus report, SETO covers the critical technical barriers, the commercialization pitfalls and opportunities, and efforts to overcome barriers and challenges to commercialization. It also references SETO-funded projects, which can be viewed in the Solar Energy Research Database. One of the major barriers is cost. In order for perovskite to be commercially competitive, its levelized cost of electricity (LCOE) must be competitive with that of other technologies. And with the cost of silicon and CdTe modules dropping while warranty times are increasing, it will be a steep challenge for perovskite to compete on an LCOE basis. “As researchers continue to develop perovskites, there are lessons to be learned from the fates of other photovoltaic technologies. SETO is focused on helping perovskite photovoltaic companies to avoid those pitfalls and spurring innovation in order to get this technology market-ready and accelerate the deployment of solar energy,” said Dr. Lenny Tinker, photovoltaics program manager, Solar Energy Technologies Office, US Department of Energy. Module and cell durability Durability is the largest technological risk for perovskite PV. For LCOE metrics to approach SETO’s 2030 goals of $0.02 kWh, perovskite PV will have to last at least 20 years in the field, which will require improving its ability to withstand various environmental conditions. Much testing is required, yet today’s tests are geared toward commercialized PV technologies (Si, CdTe, etc.) and are unlikely to capture all the failure modes relevant to perovskite modules in the field. Existing tests may also be excessive or promote irrelevant or uncharacteristic modes of perovskite device failure. SETO has published some minimum durability performance targets which, if realized, would provide strong evidence that a prototype perovskite PV device is ready to enter an initial production stage. To this end, SETO funds considerable perovskite durability work as well as development of test standards. Efficiency, often considered a strength of perovskite PV, requires significant improvement for large-area devices before they are ready for the commercial arena. While standardized cell and module form factors have yet to be finalized for perovskite PV, standards will be a crucial prerequisite to scaling the entire industry beyond initial demonstration projects. To encourage industry standardization and communication, SETO is promoting collaboration among academia, the national laboratories, and industry – intended to bring diverse perspectives and expertise to bear on common problems, accelerate cycles of learning, and facilitate transfers of knowledge and skills. Industry consortia like PACT and the US Manufacturing of Advanced Perovskites (MAP) consortium allow companies to connect and share best practices within this industry. The final major technical hurdle to commercialization is achieving high production yield, with narrow distributions in module efficiencies. Barriers related to process control and manufacturing yield are often underappreciated, and perovskite solar cells have not yet demonstrated broad process flexibility in the lab. Cost-effective deposition processes will need to tolerate small variations in factors such as deposition tooling conditions, deposition environment, and ink compositions. SETO has emphasized process control in perovskite projects across its portfolio, ensuring that changes in performance or efficiency are statistically significant and robust from a process standpoint, while funding the development of which processes, when scaled up, might be easier to control. The ability of perovskite PV technologies to secure investor financing with low interest rates, may be even more significant than the technical challenges to perovskite PV commercialization. Financing will be necessary for scaled manufacturing lines and deployment projects. Bankability is directly related to the confidence financers have that (1) the technical challenges have been solved, (2) the financed assets will perform long enough to deliver a desired return on investment, and (3) the liability of product failure and warranty claims is low. Ensuring bankability and durability standards are met is a SETO priority. These challenges faced by perovskite technology makes it uncertain as to if and when it can achieve gigawatt-scale deployment. In the meantime, there are many different applications that can support higher dollar-per-watt costs and durability issues including transportation, building integrated PV, military operations, aerospace, and Internet of Things. Substantial capital will be needed to scale the perovskite industry, which will come only once investors and financiers have confidence in the profitability of perovskite manufacturers and the long-term durability of perovskite module technologies. Sustainable growth of the perovskite industry depends on avoiding these pitfalls and requires patient and careful investment that corresponds with the timeline and magnitude of progress needed to adopt this technology into products. SETO has supported a wide range of perovskite startups in various stages of development, through different programmes, as SETO can support sustainable investment in the perovskite PV space by providing nondilutive capital to promising early-stage commercial entities. Startups further along in the product development cycle and closer to pilot manufacturing are encouraged to apply for funding through SETO’s Incubator program. Overall, the opportunities for perovskites as a solar technology are great. It has the potential to develop into a high-efficiency, low-cost module technology for commercial power sector deployment, with throughput rates and energy payback times superior to state-of-the-art PV technologies. SETO calls for members of the perovskite community increase device size, demonstrate relevant outdoor durability, and make processes robust in order to tap the potential of perovskite in the solar energy sector. This content is protected by copyright and may not be reused. If you want to cooperate with us and would like to reuse some of our content, please contact: email@example.com.
- BBC Micro Sinclair’s machines would not remain unchallenged for long. A former Sinclair engineer, Chris Curry, together with an Austrian friend named Hermann Hauser, cofounded a new competing company called Acorn Computers in 1978. After the first experiments, the company took off in 1981 thanks to winning the BBC’s Computer Literacy Project call for proposals. Two models were released in late 1981: the BBC The BBC Micro, the most successful home computer on the educational scene with 1.5 million units sold, ran a 6502A CPU clocked at 2 MHz. The space trading simulation Elite, programmed by Dave Braben and Ian Bell in 1984, was the best game for the BBC Micro and was considered to be a “system seller.” It was a ground-breaking game where players were free to play in any way they liked—as an honest trader or as a space pirate, for example—while exploring a vast universe. Model A and Model B with 16 KB and 32 KB RAM, respectively, with more models to come in the following years. BBC’s educational program made Acorn’s latest creation a common tool in all British schools and its success was so great that it was used later in similar programs in other Commonwealth countries, such as India, throughout the eighties. Though it was not originally meant to play games, the BBC Micro would have a relevant role in the industry, mostly thanks to an extremely influential and groundbreaking game, Elite, which was first programmed on this system before being ported to many others and inspiring countless titles up to this very day. Acorn was sold to Olivetti in 1985 but the BBC Micro was produced, in different iterations, until 1994. - Amstrad CPC Sinclair and Acorn were not the only players on the British home computer scene, though, and Amstrad, an electronics company founded in 1968 by Alan Sugar, soon played a major role. The Color Personal Computer (CPC) line of computers was launched in 1984 and soon gathered a large following, mostly in the UK and central Europe. Games on the CPC were quite varied and, in the mid-eighties, most games in Europe were ported to all of the three main platforms of the time: the C64, the ZX Spectrum, and the CPC. Amstrad also bought Sinclair in 1986, continuing the Spectrum line with different iterations that, unfortunately, were not able to match the machine’s early successes. The CPC line was ultimately discontinued in 1990 after an attempt to enter the video game market directly with a computer-turnedconsole model, the GX4000, that didn’t catch much attention. The Z-80 powered CPC 464, the first model in the CPC line. It had 64 KB RAM and an internal cassette deck MSX was the Japanese answer to American and European home computers. Actually, it was not just a “computer” but a full standard—spanning hardware and software—and it was designed so that different manufacturers would produce compatible machines on a common architecture. Starting from mid-1983, several Japanese and Korean electronics companies,such as Sony, Sharp, JVC, Canon, Toshiba, Sanyo, and Daewoo, started developing MSX computers. Despite being strongly supported by Microsoft Japan from the very beginning,14 MSX didn’t really succeed in developing a following in the western A MSX model by Philips. MSX computers were mounting a Z-80 and had different amounts of RAM, from 16 KB and upwards. The last MSX model, the MSXTurboR, was discontinued in 1995. The beginning of a new, epic adventure: the first Metal Gear game by Hideo Kojima, published in 1987. Though some earlier games did incorporate a stealth-based mechanic, it was perfected here and became the main game focus, starting a whole new genre. world, where the market was already crowded. However, it became a very popular choice in countries like Japan and South Korea. Overall, MSX computers sold about five million units worldwide. Despite its limited geographical relevance, the MSX played an important role in fostering the gaming industry in Japan, somewhat like the ZX Spectrum did in the UK. In fact, some of today’s most beloved franchises created by Japanese developers, like Metal Gear, Bomberman, and Puyo Puyo, were actually created on MSX computers first before being ported to other systems. - Apple II Even though Apple refused to join the on-going price war and maintained a steep price tag on its models, the different iterations of the Apple II were still able to play an important role across the gaming scene, especially in North America where it often turned out to be the tool of choice by many talented developers. The Apple IIe, with 64 KB of RAM and the ability to display both lowercase and uppercase letters, was released in 1983 (see the figure on the top of page 90) and it was followed by the IIc in 1984, a compact and portable version that doubled the available RAM. Overall, including the 16-bit Apple IIGS released in 1986, the Apple II series was an “all-arounder,” equally at ease in the office, in a research facility, and at home. It ended up selling between five and six million units, leaving a mark in the memories of many. Several seminal games, like Jordan Mechner’s Karateka (1984), a side-scroller action game that served as a basis for the later Prince of Persia, were originally conceived on the Apple II. The IIe was the Apple II model with the longest lifespan and it was produced until 1993
Sneezing is a sudden and uncontrollable burst of air that passes through the mouth and nose. Sneezing is caused by irritation of the mucous membrane of the nose and throat. Sneezing might be bothersome to people, but it is not a sign of anything serious.1 Whenever sneezing, people cover their nose and mouth with a tissue to help prevent the spread of germs.2 You can sneeze in response to many external triggers and allergies, and it is usually not a sign of anything serious.1 Sneezing is manageable, and the remedies mentioned below might help in managing and preventing sneezing. Sneezing can also be a symptom of hay fever or allergic rhinitis, but you need to consult with a healthcare professional or doctor to come up with a diagnosis.3 What Causes Sneezing? A lot of factors can trigger sneezing. These factors are: - External particles like pollen, mould and dust - Common cold - Inhaling corticosteroids (present in certain nose sprays) - Withdrawal of certain drugs - Triggers like dry air, spicy foods and strong emotions.1 Symptoms of Sneezing: Sneezing itself can be a symptom of health conditions like cold and allergic rhinitis (hay fever). Allergic rhinitis is a condition in which the body’s immune system recognises and over-reacts to environmental factors like dust, pet dander and pollen.1,3 Sneezing presents itself with: - A sudden burst of air passes through the nose and mouth. - Expulsion of mucous, foreign matter and irritants from the nose.4 It is advised to cover your mouth and nose whenever you sneeze to help prevent the spread of viruses and germs. Suggested Home Remedies for Sneezing: Here are some home remedies that you can use to get rid of allergies that might be causing you to sneeze. Eating honey might help with seasonal allergies that might be causing you to sneeze. However, there is a lack of sufficient information regarding honey providing benefits for sneezing. Also, you should avoid eating honey if you are allergic to pollen. Honey should not be used for children under one year of age.5 To use honey, you can mix some honey in a glass of warm water and drink it. You can also make honey ginger tea to deal with sneezing. In a clinical trial, turmeric was found to be effective in providing relief from symptoms of allergic rhinitis like sneezing and nasal congestion. Turmeric is also effective in modulating immune reactions.6 There are several ways in which you can use turmeric. You can take turmeric as a part of your daily diet by: - Putting turmeric in food items and dishes. - You can also make turmeric milk by putting some turmeric in a glass of milk. You can also add honey for taste. However, if you are allergic to pollen, you should avoid putting honey. You can drink this turmeric milk as and when required to get rid of sneezing. 3. Black Pepper Black pepper is a natural immunomodulator that is capable of modifying immune responses. Black pepper might be beneficial for sneezing due to allergies and over-reaction of the immune system (allergic rhinitis).3,7 To use black pepper for allergies, you can make black pepper tea. To make the black pepper tea, you can use black pepper, dry ginger, basil and cardamom. Drink this warm black pepper tea a couple of times a day to get relief from the symptoms of allergy.8 Ginger can help you deal with allergic rhinitis. To use ginger, you can combine the ginger powder with turmeric and Ashwagandha powder and mix it well. You can take this powder mixture along with milk to manage allergic rhinitis.8 Allergic rhinitis is one of the main causes of sneezing.3 Avoiding the exposure to the triggers that might be causing you the reactions is the best way to control the sneezing. You can control your sneezing in some ways that are given below. 5. Using Air Filters Using air filters will help you keep the air clean. It will also help to avoid exposure to any particles or triggers that might be causing you to sneeze.1 Clean air will help you to manage and control sneezing. 6. Proper Washing of the Beddings and Sheets Washing the linens can get rid of all the dust and particles that might be causing you to sneeze. It will limit your exposure to indoor allergens. It is important to clean all the beddings and sheets properly to avoid contact with external triggers. Also, washing linens in water helps in killing the dust mites.1 7. Pet Care Pets might be carrying some animal dander (flakes of skin), which can cause an allergic reaction and sneezing. If you are allergic to pets, keeping pets out might help to avoid your exposure to allergens and pet dander. Also, you can follow this practice to further limit your contact: - Wash your hands immediately after petting animals. - You can change your clothing after meeting friends with pets.3 8. Avoiding Outdoor Exposure You can manage your allergic symptoms by avoiding the triggers that might be present outdoors. If you are allergic to pollen, you should try to stay indoors as much as possible. Avoid hanging your clothing outside, as the pollen and dust might stick to them.3 When to Seek Medical Help? You need to contact your doctor or healthcare provider if your sneezing is affecting your day-to-day activities. Also, if the home remedies do not work out, you should contact your doctor.1 Sneezing is nothing but a sudden outburst of air which comes out of the nose and mouth. It can be a symptom of an allergic condition called allergic rhinitis or hay fever. Sneezing is the body’s response to expel the irritants from the nasal cavity. You must cover your nose and mouth with a tissue when sneezing. It is important to follow good hygiene habits to avoid the spread of germs. Limiting your exposure to the triggers that might be causing you to sneeze is the best way to get relief from it. For example, you can restrict your indoor and outdoor exposure to dust mites, pet dander and pollen to get relief from sneezing. You can also use honey and turmeric to get rid of sneezing.
Jaakkola, Antti and Yli-Halla, Markku (2008) Thirty years of growing cereal without P and K fertilization. In: NJF Report, Nordic Association of Agricultural Scientists, 4 (2), pp. 17-19. Over thirty years a significant depletion of P and K in soil occured when the were not given in fertilizers. This caused a reduction in crop yield. An abundant P application exceeding the crop uptake very clearly prevented the yield reduction but did not raise the extractable P concentration in the soil. Severe K deficiency did not start to appear until 20 years of growing cereal without fertilizer K. K application compensating for the uptake by the crop did not prevent the decrease of its extractable concentration in this soil, but this decrease did not affect crop yield. |EPrint Type:||Conference paper, poster, etc.| |Type of presentation:||Paper| |Keywords:||fertilization, potassium, phosphorus, cereals| |Subjects:||Soil > Nutrient turnover| |Research affiliation:||Finland > Univ. Helsinki| |Deposited By:||Koistinen, Riitta| |Deposited On:||11 Jun 2009| |Last Modified:||12 Apr 2010 07:39| Repository Staff Only: item control page
Ibuprofen May Lower Risk of Parkinson's Disease Study Shows About a One-Third Reduction in Parkinson’s Risk for Regular Ibuprofen Users WebMD News Archive How Ibuprofen Might Fight Parkinson’s Other experts note, however, that a growing body of research supports the idea that ibuprofen may be uniquely protective of brain cells that produce the chemical dopamine. Loss of those dopamine-producing neurons is thought to cause Parkinson’s, a disorder in which the brain gradually loses its ability to control the body’s movements. People with Parkinson’s typically experience uncontrollable tremors or trembling in the jaw, face, arms or legs; stiffness; impaired coordination and balance; depression and other mood changes; skin problems; constipation; and trouble sleeping. “The theory behind the inflammation and Parkinson’s goes back decades,” says Ali Samii, MD, associate professor of neurology at the University of Washington. “It’s biologically plausible. It’s not a very powerful protector, but it does reduce the risk.” Samii published a study in 2009 finding that ibuprofen, but not other NSAIDs or aspirin, reduced the risk of Parkinson’s in regular users by about 25%. “There are animal studies suggesting that the blood-barrier penetrations of NSAIDs are quite different from one another,” he says. “Ibuprofen itself may have some specific neuroprotective properties.” In a test tube, for example, one study demonstrated that ibuprofen protected dopamine-producing nerve cells of rat brains from excessive stimulation, which can cause cell death. For his part, Gao believes ibuprofen may work against Parkinson’s by activating a signaling pathway called the peroxisome, proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) pathway. “That pathway is very important for Parkinson’s disease because the PPAR pathway kind of inhibits apoptosis,” or cell death, he says. “It also plays a role in oxidative stress [and] it’s important for anti-inflammatory actions.” Gao thinks that if scientists can discover how ibuprofen may protect brain cells, it may lead to the development of stronger and more targeted drugs that have the same effect. “That would be a very good thing,” he says.
Loading in 2 Seconds... Loading in 2 Seconds... ¡ Bienvenidos a Chile! Language and Culture 2009 Memphis in May International Teachers’ Conference. Presented by Melissa Spain. Chile. Located in South America Situated between Pacific Ocean on the west and Andes Mountains on the right Intensive European flavor – Download Policy: Content on the Website is provided to you AS IS for your information and personal use and may not be sold / licensed / shared on other websites without getting consent from its author.While downloading, if for some reason you are not able to download a presentation, the publisher may have deleted the file from their server. Presented by Melissa Spain settled by Italians, Germans, English, Spanish Culture is defined as the customary beliefs, social forms, and material traits of a racial, religious, or social group ; the characteristic features of everyday existence shared by people in a place or culture. (2009). In Merriam-Webster Online Dictionary Retrieved February 7, 2009, from http://www.merriam- webster.com/dictionary/culture Instead of pointing with the finger, which is considered rude or poorly educated, Chileans use their lips as a signal. The lips are used to point in the direction of interest. The pointing of the lips can indicate one specific direction, or the moving of the lips can indicate a larger area. *In rural areas, businesses close at lunch traditionally for the siesta. History of the Once : many years ago, men met at this time to enjoy an alcoholic beverage called Aguardiente. In order to conceal the true menu of the get together, a code name was formed. The number of letters in the word Aguardiente is eleven (once). Thus, tea hour has become known as once. -Empanadas de Pino A pastry made of flour, water, butter, and salt, full of beef, cut in cubes with onions, olive raisins, and hard boiled egg that is cooked in the oven. -Bistec a lo Pobre Steak with fried potatoes, fried onions, and fried eggs Spicy dish made of poroto beans, corn, and pumpkin A round bun filled with manjar or mermalade and covered with pulverized sugar -Mote con Huesillo Dehydrated peaches with boiled wheat or boiled corn often in water or peach juice Manjar between two round and flat cookies covered in chocolate. The valley just north of Santiago is known for its vineyards. Shakira won the international award as a teenager competing in 1992 China, Italy, Estonia KC and the Sunshine Band And many others Previous participating artists you may recognize include INXS, Duran Duran. Ricky Martin, Nelly Furtado, Earth Wind and Fire, Mr. Mister, Eddie Money, Sheena Easton, Air Supply, Journey social and political life. Christians celebrate Holy Week and Easter Sunday In memory of the naval combat of Iquique Fiesta de la Iglesia Católica Catholic holiday to honor these saints Catholics celebrate the assumption of the Virgin Maria Chile proclaimed its independence from Spain on Feb. 12 1818. However, Chileans celebrate the independance on Sept. 18 each year. It is the anniversary of the first joining of the national government. Honors the army and remembers the victories All Saint’s Day Catholics remember the Virgen Maria “The House of the Spirits”, (novel) Spain 1982 “Eva Luna'”, (novel) Spain 1985 “Inés of My Soul”, (novel) Spain 2006 http://www.isabelallende.com/ (English, German, and indigenous languages also spoken) Other countries that speak Spanish Argentina El Salvador Nicaragua Bolivia Guatemala Panama Colombia Honduras Paraguay Costa Rica Mexico Peru Cuba Spain Puerto Rico Ecuador Venezuela Uruguay - vacation vs. holiday Y’all vs you guys Coke, soda, pop The tendency with words that end with –ado is to condense the last syllable to create the sound –ao. This is a result of Chileans speaking very fast. Por ejemplo: el tiempo ya está pasao Por ejemplo: se encuentra al otro lao The informal way to address a person in Spanish is “tú.” In this case, verbs are formed as following: hablar = tú hablas vivir = tú vives querer = tú quieres However, Chilieans use a modified version of the form “tu”. The from “vo” is created by conjugating the verb in vosotros and dropping the final “s”. The above mentioned examples are converted using “vo” hablar = hablái vivir = viví querer = querí ¿Cómo estás? Bien po. ¿Fuiste al mercado? Sí, po a, b, c, ch, d, e, f, g, h, i, j, k, l, ll, m, n, ñ, o, p, q, r, s, t, u, v, w, x, y, z. papa vs papá te (object pronoun) vs té intelligence , distance inteligencia, distancia artist, dentist artista, dentista tourism, optimism tourismo , optimismo animal, capital animal, capital actor, error actor, error university, city universidad, ciudad World Language Specialist Memphis City Schools Oak Forest Elementary
By Amy Goodman Thanksgiving is around the corner, and families will be gathering to share a meal and, perhaps, enjoy another annual telecast of “The Wizard of Oz.” The 70-year-old film classic bears close watching this year, perhaps more than in any other, for the message woven into the lyrics, written during the Great Depression by Oscar-winning lyricist E.Y. “Yip” Harburg. There’s more to the Scarecrow and the Tin Man than meets the eye, and Harburg’s message has renewed resonance today in the midst of the greatest financial collapse since the Depression. Harburg grew up in New York’s Lower East Side. In high school, he was seated alphabetically next to Ira Gershwin, and the two began a friendship that lasted a lifetime and helped shape 20th-century American song and culture. Ernie Harburg, Yip’s son and co-author of the biography “Who Put the Rainbow in The Wizard of Oz?,” told me, “Yip knew poverty deeply ... it was the basis of Yip’s understanding of life as struggle.” Harburg was deep in debt after the 1929 Wall Street crash. Gershwin suggested that Harburg write song lyrics. Before long, he wrote the song that captured the essence of the Great Depression, “Brother, Can You Spare a Dime?” Ernie said of the music industry then: “They only wanted love songs or escape songs, so that in 1929 you had ‘Happy Days Are Here Again.’ ... There wasn’t one song that addressed the Depression, in which we were all living.” “Brother, Can You Spare a Dime?” became a national hit and remains a kind of anthem for hard times, corporate greed and the dignity of working people: Once I built a railroad, I made it run, made it race against time. Once I built a railroad; now it’s done. Brother, can you spare a dime? In the 1930s, Harburg became the lyricist for “The Wizard of Oz.” He also added the rainbow to the story, which doesn’t appear in L. Frank Baum’s original 1900 book, “The Wonderful Wizard of Oz.” This led Harburg to write the famous song “Over the Rainbow,” sung by the then-unknown Judy Garland. While academic debate persists over whether Baum intended the story as a political allegory about the rise of industrial monopolists like John D. Rockefeller and the subsequent populist backlash, there is no doubt that Harburg’s influence made the 1939 film version more political. The film, says Ernie Harburg, is about common people confronting and defeating seemingly insurmountable and violent oppression: The Scarecrow represented farmers, the Tin Man stood for the factory workers, and the Munchkins of the “Lollipop Guild” were the union members. Ernie recalled: “There was at least 30 percent unemployment at those times. And among blacks and minorities, it was 50, 60 percent. And there were bread lines, and the rich kept living their lifestyle.” “The Wizard of Oz” was to be “MGM’s answer to [Disney’s] ‘Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs,’ ” Ernie recounts. It was initially a critical success, but a commercial flop. Yip Harburg went on to write “Finian’s Rainbow” for Broadway. It addresses racial bigotry, hatred of immigrants, easy credit and mortgage foreclosures. In 1947, “Finian’s Rainbow” was the first Broadway musical with an integrated cast. It was a hit, running for a year and a half. When Harburg’s unabashed political expression made him a target during the McCarthy era, he was blacklisted, and was banned from TV and film work from 1951 to 1962. Ironically, in the middle of his blacklist period, CBS broadcast “The Wizard of Oz” on television. It broke all viewership records, and has been airing since, gaining global renown and adulation. This October, “Finian’s Rainbow” began its first full Broadway revival—the first since it was originally produced six decades ago—to rave reviews. Yip Harburg would be especially proud, no doubt, to know that one of the actors, Terri White, who plays a black sharecropper in “Finian’s Rainbow,” is back on Broadway despite having recently been homeless. From sleeping on park benches to starring on Broadway once again, this is just the kind of tale that inspired Harburg. In response to his blacklisting, Harburg wrote a satiric poem, which reads in part: Lives of great men all remind us Greatness takes no easy way, All the heroes of tomorrow Are the heretics of today. Why do great men all remind us We can write our names on high And departing leave behind us Thumbprints in the FBI. Let’s give thanks to Yip Harburg and all heretical artists, past and present, who have withstood censorship and banishment just for talking turkey. Denis Moynihan contributed research to this column. Amy Goodman is the host of “Democracy Now!,” a daily international TV/radio news hour airing on more than 800 stations in North America. She is the author of “Breaking the Sound Barrier,” recently released in paperback.
Shouting from Constricted Lungs, by K.J. Wells, is an important read for poets and those who enjoy reading and studying poetry. Exploring a range of subject matter and emotions, Wells takes the reader on a journey of the heart, profoundly commenting on important topics like war, death, love, and racism. The poet is precise with line length and word choices, and lines of poetry are well-thought out. Strong images in the poet’s work give us artistic beauty as well as contextual significance. Poignantly, Wells is able to use her words to remember those who shouldn’t be forgotten. Among these are family and friends who have shaped her life, especially the poet’s father, Victor Wells. Shouting from Constricted Lungs was published by AuthorHouse Books in May 2014 and is available on Amazon here.
A cyst is benign, non-cancerous swelling that grows just under the skin. Cysts are essentially sacs containing fluid. The sac lining or cyst wall develops from skin cells or cells around hair follicles. Inside the sac is a thick white or yellow liquid called keratin, which is found in skin and hair. Cysts can occur almost anywhere on the body. They can be termed ‘sebaceous cysts’, ‘epidermoid cysts’ or ‘pilar cysts’ depending ontheir location. ‘Pilar’ cysts are usually seen in the scalp whereas ‘sebaceous’ or ‘epidermoid’ cysts occur elsewhere in the body. Cysts can grow over months or years without causing any problems. As cysts enlarge, you may feel self-conscious of the unsightly swelling, especially if it is in a visible area. Some patients may experience symptoms such as discomfort or the cyst may ooze pungent fluid. Cysts can also become infected leading to severe pain, redness and swelling of the area. A skin cyst and a lipoma can be differentiated by their features. A skin cyst tends to be firm to the touch, it is attached to the overlying skin and may have a ‘punctum’ which is the origin of the cyst (visible as a small dark dot on the skin). A lipoma is an overgrowth of benign fat cells which grows slowly over years. Lipomas feel softer, lie deeper in the tissues and are never attached to the overlying skin. They rarely cause any symptoms and never get inflamed or infected. Only infected cysts may be drained on the NHS. The vast majority of cysts are removed in the private sector. Some GPs may offer cyst removal at their GP practice but will just reoccur if the sac lining is not completely removed. Skin cysts can be normally removed underlocal anaesthetic. First, the outline of the swelling is marked on the skin and the skin incision is marked and orientated to lie in the natural skin lines to conceal the resulting scar. Local anaesthetic is then injected to numb the area and the overlying skin is cleaned with an anti-septic solution. An elliptical incision is made over the swelling and cyst is dissected free from the surrounding tissues and removed in its entirety with the sac lining. The wound is then cauterised to stop any bleeding and closed usually with stitches and a dressing applied. Cysts can become inflamed or infected and become swollen, red and very painful. A course of antibiotics may resolve the infection. Drainage of the cyst may be required if the infection does not settle with antibiotics. Cysts can only be drained and cannot be removed whilst infected. The cyst can be formally removed 2 to 3 months later once the infection has fully settled. There will be a permanent scar after removal of your cyst and this is unavoidable. Other risks include, wound infection, delayed wound healing or wound separation, poor scarring (with lumpy, stretched or pigmented scarring) and recurrence of the cyst. Although there may be a small dressing following your minor surgery, you should be able to go home straight after the procedure and return to work the next day. Skin stitches may be required after a small cyst removal and these are removed at 7 days on the face and 10 to 14 days on other areas of the body. After 2 weeks, the wound should be healed and the scar should be with massaged daily with a moisturiser. Although gentle exercise such as walking is fine straight after surgery, more rigorous exercise such as swimming and gym classes should be avoided for 3 to 4 weeks after surgery to avoid wound infection and wound separation. Make-up should not be applied to the wound on the face for at approximately 3 weeks or until the wound has fully healed to avoid wound infection. An infected cyst can be drained from around £450.00 and the cost of cyst removal can be from £650.00 but varies depending on the size, location and whether it is a recurrence.
National Nutrition Month March is National Nutrition Month. This year’s theme is “Go Further with Food.” The focus of the campaign, led by the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics, is to encourage healthy eating habits and to reduce food waste. For this reason, this is a great time to evaluate whether or not you are meeting your nutritional needs. Is it enough? According to the CDC, most Americans are not eating enough fruits and vegetables. Fewer than 1 in 10 children and adults eat the recommended daily amount of vegetables. Only 4 in 10 children and fewer than 1 in 7 adults eat enough fruit. Lack of intake is only part of the problem. Most Americans also exceed the recommended intake levels of fats, added sugars, refined grains and sodium. According to the U.S. Department of Health & Human Services, about 90% of Americans eat more sodium than is recommended for a healthy diet. On average, U.S. adults consume 3,440 mg of sodium per day. If each person were to reduce the amount of sodium consumed by 1,200 mg per day, it could save up to $20 billion a year in medical costs. Diet and physical activity are the best preventative strategies to reduce the prevalence of chronic conditions such as diabetes, obesity and hypertension. ChooseMyPlate, is a great resource to ensure we are meeting the daily recommended amounts of key food groups. The amount of each group depends on a persons’ age, sex and level of physical activity. ChooseMyPlate can be used as visual aid to better understand proper portions and compositions for each meal. When preparing meals, it is important to choose foods and beverages with less saturated fats, sodium and added sugar. Fruits & Vegetables Fruits provide nutrients such as potassium, dietary fiber, vitamin C and folate. Avoid fruit juices and focus instead on whole, canned and frozen fruit. Keeping fruit in a visible area can serve as a visual reminder to eat your daily recommended amount of fruit. Try to incorporate a variety of fruit such as dried, frozen and canned into your diet. Vegetables are beneficial for your health because they contain vitamins and minerals and are usually low in calories. A great way to incorporate vegetables into your diet is by preparing pre-packaged snacks ahead of time. Although fresh vegetables are ideal, frozen and canned vegetables can be just as nutritious. Grains & Protein Whole grains serve as a great source of zinc, magnesium, B vitamins and fiber. Be sure to look for the word “whole” at the beginning of the ingredient list to ensure the grain is in fact a whole grain. Protein sources include both animal and plant-based foods. Good animal sources for protein include poultry, meat, seafood and eggs. Protein from plant sources include beans, peas, soy products and seeds. It is important to select lean meats and poultry, as well as to eat plant protein foods more often. Dairy foods including milk, yogurt, cheese and fortified soy milk provide the necessary levels of calcium, vitamin D, potassium and protein needed for good health. It is important to select foods that are low-fat or fat-free. Be sure to also limit added sugars in flavored products such as milks and yogurts.
Advanced Conversion Technologies is the term for technologies such as gasification and pyrolysis. These could become competitors with Anaerobic Digestion. In fact, a number of innovative advanced, high temperature processes for Energy from Waste/ Waste to Energy, are beginning to emerge from the far east. These may become more efficient (after further development), than conventional processes and can offer a range of different types of energy from bio-based wastes. If so, they may compete with biogas plants for their feed biomass. - wood waste and - municipal wastes. Woody wastes are not easy to digest through anaerobic digestion, and these new techniques may be much better suited to obtaining efficient Energy from Waste outputs from wood waste. “Overview; Conventional technologies; Advanced conversion technologies; Environmental controls; Obstacles to energy from waste; Anaerobic digestion strategy … Choice of an Advanced Conversion Technology Must First Comply with UK Waste Regs and the Waste Hierarchy The sub-topic of our meme today is the UK Waste Regs. and how important it is when planning a UK energy from waste (EfW) project, not to “fall and get hurt by” the Waste Hierarchy! The current requirements for compliance of new AD plants (including feedstock changes) and new and existing energy from waste facilities, with UK Waste regulations need early consideration in any EfW project. “Recovering energy from waste is only appropriate for waste that cannot be prevented, reused or recycled with less greenhouse gas emitted.Energy recovery can be a sustainable option for waste that would otherwise go to landfill and create landfill methane emissions.” The report below defines two Advanced Energy from Waste Conversion Technologies, as follows: Gasification is a type of advanced conversion that produces a combustible gas that is a mixture of carbon monoxide, hydrogen, carbon dioxide and methane. This gas can be used directly to generate heat and electricity. Alternatively it can be upgraded to an ultra clean gas called syngas. This can be used to manufacture either biomethane, which can be injected into the national gas grid, or transport fuels such as hydrogen, ethanol, synthetic diesel or jet fuel. The energy given off can be harnessed to generate heat and power. Pyrolysis is a type of advanced conversion that can be used to produce either a combustible gas, oil or solid char (sometimes known as bio-coal). In the future, it will be possible to upgrade pyrolysis oil to produce petrol and diesel using oil refining techniques. The choice of technology for any project depends on the type of waste available, local circumstances and finance. via the Gov.UK website here. More information on the different technologies is available on the NNFCCwebsite. Advanced Conversion Technology (ACT) Beset by Problems in UK Advanced Conversion Technology (ACT), is seen as the next generation of thermal waste-to-energy technologies offering many benefits over conventional thermal treatment methods. In particular, once successfully implemented ACT should be more sustainable than present day incinerators. But, following several high-profile setbacks for ‘advanced conversion technologies’, some are now questioning whether gasification and pyrolysis can ever work at a large scale to treat residual waste. For well over a decade now, various forces in the UK have been trying to develop advanced conversion technology (ACT) for the treatment of residual waste as an alternative to landfill or mass-burn incineration. Not Much Real Progress on ACT in the UK Since 2003 Way back in 2003, the previous Labour government launched its New Technology Demonstrator Programme with the aim of overcoming the ‘real and perceived risks’ associated with technologies like anaerobic digestion (AD), mechanical biological treatment (MBT), mechanical heat treatment (MHT), gasification and pyrolysis. Indeed, only one ATT project – the ex-incinerator on the Isle of Wight that Energos retrofitted with gasification technology – was even able to complete the project to a meaningful degree. But, not for long when due to inefficient operation and high costs it shut down. Rather than directly releasing energy, the processes produce ‘syngas’, made up of hydrogen and carbon monoxide, which can be used to produce energy through steam turbines, for instance, or can, in theory, be used directly as a fuel, which would result in higher conversion efficiencies. via resource.co This article was first uploaded on 31 January 2013. Latest update 8 September 2019.
What are the pug puppies? The pugs are also thought to be the part of American kennel club’s toy group along with this they are also known as clowns of canine world for their great sense of humor. These are Wrinkly, short-muzzled face and curled tailed dog’s breed. These dogs have a glossy coat of various colors, mostly of black or fawn and have a compact square body with well-developed muscles and big brown eyes. These dogs originated in China and letter on in sixteen century they were brought to Europe and now are found almost everywhere in the world. Pugs are very sociable and gentle companion Dogs. Table of Contents - What are black Pug Puppies? - Health Problems of Black Pug Puppies: - How to Train a Pug Dog in 2018? - Obedience Training for your puppy: - How to live with pug dogs? - Limit the number of treats : What are black Pug Puppies? The Black pug puppies have wrinkled, short-muzzled face and curled tail like all other pug breeds except its color. If you talk about the physical characteristics of black Pug puppies there are two distinct shapes of ears Rose and button; their ears are folded with front edges against the side of the head. Pugs have straight and strong legs of medium size, well under set legs. Their shoulders are laid back. The black pug puppies usually have small feet and strong ankles. The black colored nails and well split up toes. Pug breed along with black Pug puppies all are suitable for families especially with children because most of the breeds are fond of playing with children. There is no need to fear as pug breed are sturdy enough to properly play with children. Health Problems of Black Pug Puppies: - Pug dogs are small creative sharp and intelligent, so they need or attention and care. This breed has some health problems; we must know to keep them safe and to remain well aware of them. - Pugs are very susceptible to eye injuries because they lack long snouts and a permanent skeletal brow ridge. Eye injuries include proptosis, scratched corneas, and painful entropion. - Due to having compact breathing passageway they also have breathing difficulties as well as having difficulties in regulating their temperature through evaporation from the tongue by panting. - They need more oxygen and cool environment to live in because if their body temperature reaches to 108F (42C), it will cause organ failure. Adult age of black Pug breed : When will pug stop to grow? When a pug becomes one year old, he is deemed an adult with the achievement of 90% of his / her height and 80% of his /her weight. Even at this age, your dog may behave like a puppy, but when he/she reaches the age of 18 months, he/she is the complete adult with his/her maximum height and weight. At this age, black pug breeds become muscular and no longer will he/she grow. If your dogs get more weight after the weight, the dogs have reached this age will be considered as unhealthy. How to Train a Pug Dog in 2018? Pug puppies at the beginning are very energetic and seem running around and playing with everything they get it will be funny and entertaining at first but as soon you will be done with this enjoyment you will not feel your dog feeling tired and will seem to troublemaking for you. To avoid your pretty dog to be a mess you need to train him to be obedient. Obedience Training for your puppy: The main quality of pug breed is that they in growing age try to learn and shape their habits whether you teach him or he will learn by himself. The black pug puppies as are naughty, so all they will learn is bad habits like chewing your shoes entering in those places where you do not want him to be and running in your house. Tips for training your black pug: It is better to teach him whether letting him spoil himself and learn all those habits which will cause him to be disliked. Very earlier steps you need to teach your dog are - Teach him not to bite - Teach your puppy to jump on furniture - Teach your dog not to play with food - Teach your puppy not to chew things like shoes Why should black pugs breeds be trained earlier? These dogs love to learn when they are still puppies and will make this learning’s as their habits. So you have to start teaching him every trick you want him to perform, at the very earlier time because when the dog is an adult, it will be hard for him to change his habits and for you to teach him. How to live with pug dogs? Black pug puppies have the flat baby like face and large brown eyes which convince most of the people to hug them. These are very cute attractive and sensitive creature and need care. For a happy, healthy and attractive puppy you need to take care of these things : Feed them right food: feed your puppy with good quality food. Meat is the topmost ingredient in their diet Avoid feeding them foods containing high quantity cereal and soya. Limit the number of treats : By nature pug breed dogs are greedy and will try to convince you to feed them more .they will overweight if feed too much which will result in health problems Black Pug puppies Some more things you need to take care of. - Set house rules for him - Provide basic care for pug dogs - Plan to spend more time with puppies - Take pugs to veterinarian for regular check up - Brush your pug daily
Late one night, a man searches for something in a parking lot. On his hands and knees, he crawls around a bright circle of light created by a streetlamp overhead. A woman passes, stops, takes in the scene. “What are you looking for? Can I help?” “My car keys. Any chance you’ve seen them?” “You dropped them right around here?” “Oh, no. I dropped them way over there,” he says, gesturing vaguely to some faraway spot on the other side of the lot. “Then why are you looking here?” The man pauses to consider the question. “Because this is where the light is.” New research from the Yale Child Study Center suggests that many preschool teachers look for disruptive behavior in much the same way: in just one place, waiting for it to appear. The problem with this strategy (besides it being inefficient), is that, because of implicit bias, teachers are spending too much time watching black boys and expecting the worst. Lead researcher Walter Gilliam knew that to get an accurate measure of implicit bias among preschool teachers, he couldn’t be fully transparent with his subjects about what, exactly, he was trying to study. Implicit biases are just that — subtle, often subconscious stereotypes that guide our expectations and interactions with people. “We all have them,” Gilliam says. “Implicit biases are a natural process by which we take information, and we judge people on the basis of generalizations regarding that information. We all do it.” Even the most well-meaning teacher can harbor deep-seated biases, whether she knows it or not. So Gilliam and his team devised a remarkable — and remarkably deceptive — experiment. At a big, annual conference for pre-K teachers, Gilliam and his team recruited 135 educators to watch a few short videos. Here’s what they told them: Each video included four children: a black boy and girl and a white …
Table of Contents adjective. ['ˈvɪgɝəs'] characterized by forceful and energetic action or activity. Rhymes with Vigorous How do you pronounce vigorous? Pronounce vigorous as ˈvɪgərəs. US - How to pronounce vigorous in American English UK - How to pronounce vigorous in British English Sentences with vigorous Pruning is an important part of caring for a healthy, vigorous Mandevilla vine. Quotes about vigorous 1. There is in every child at every stage a new miracle of vigorous unfolding, which constitutes a new hope and a new responsibility for all. - Erik Erikson 2. Age has no reality except in the physical world. The essence of a human being is resistant to the passage of time. Our inner lives are eternal, which is to say that our spirits remain as youthful and vigorous as when we were in full bloom. Think of love as a state of grace, not the means to anything, but the alpha and omega. An end in itself. - Gabriel García Márquez, Love in the Time of Cholera
Causes and Remedies of Canker Sores Canker sores are a type of ulcer that is seen inside the mouth especially in the inside part of cheeks and lips and rarely on the tongue. They have a whitish grey or yellow center and a well defined red border. They are not contagious but they may reoccur after healing once. These canker sores are painful and may trouble you while taking food and drinks. Causes for Canker Sores Canker sores are a result of nutritional deficiency and the deficiency of zinc, iron, B12, folic acid causers canker sores. Acidity in the stomach is another reason and food allergies also contribute to the same. Stress, infection due to micro organisms, vigorous brushing, oily and spicy food etc causes canker sores. Remedies for Canker Sores Dust the affected area with baking soda powder or make a paste of baking soda with water and apply it on the affected area. Apply this paste several times in a day. You can also prepare a mouth wash with baking soda and luke warm water and use this to wash your mouth. Wash the mouth thoroughly with this mouth wash after having food and before going to bed. Grapefruit Seed Extract It has got excellent disinfectant and antimicrobial property. Mix five drops of this liquid with a glass of water and wash the mouth with this mixture. This will help you to relive the canker sores. Honey and Turmeric Take one teaspoon honey and mix it with Â¼ teaspoon turmeric powder. Apply this paste on the cankers. Aloe vera juice is found to be effective for canker sores. Apply this juice many times a day and you will surely be benefited. Papaya fruits are good for treating canker sores. You can also chew fresh papaya leaves which will give you relief from the painful sores. Apply freshly cut raw onion in to the affected area and you will get relief. Tea Tree Oil It has antiseptic property and 5 to 15 % solution can be used for curing sores. Wash your mouth several times a day with salt water. This will help you to draw fluid from the sore and to help you to heal the sore. Make a tea with three tablespoon dried sage leaves in one pint water. Then wash the mouth with this tea for three or four times a day. The drying and astringent property of sage will help you to cure the canker sores. You can also apply powdered sage leaves on the sores.
When you have an attack, your breath is too short and shallow, meaning it worsens further symptoms. Once you feel the panic – stand up and start doing some simple stretching. If you manage to squeeze in a yawn, that will help you tame the attack even faster. Stretching and yawning instantly helps you relieve muscle tension and interrupt the vicious cycle that is just about to roll in full strength. Anxiety disorders increase one's chances for suffering from other medical illness, such as cardiovascular disorders, including obesity, heart disease and diabetes. More specifically, increased body weight and abdominal fat, high blood pressure, and greater levels of cholesterol, triglycerides, and glucose have all been linked to anxiety. While it is still unclear what causes the high co-morbidity between anxiety and bad physical health outcomes, research suggests that changes in underlying biology that is characteristic of anxiety may also facilitate the emergence for these other physical health outcomes over time. For example, changes in stress hormones, autonomic responses, as well as heightened systemic inflammation are all associated with anxiety disorders and negative health outcomes. These shared physiological states suggest a shared underlying biology and that anxiety maybe a whole-body condition. Behaving in an apprehensive manner produces the physiological, psychological, and emotional state of anxiety. When we behave apprehensively (worried, fretful, concerned, afraid), the body activates the stress response, which secretes stress hormones into the bloodstream where they travel to targeted spots in the body to bring about specific changes that enhance the body’s ability to deal with danger. The stress response is often referred to as the fight or flight response because of how it equips the body to either fight with or flee from danger. As with most behavioral illnesses, the causes of panic attacks are many. Certainly there is evidence that the tendency to have panic attacks can sometimes be inherited. However, there is also evidence that panic may be a learned response and that the attacks can be initiated in otherwise healthy people simply given the right set of circumstances. Research into the causes of panic attacks is ongoing. My grandparents, who I lived with my entire life, just passed away. One in june and the other in september. My girlfriend wants to spend the night with her sister and the thought of it scares me. I fear that I am pushing her away, thus for sending me into a state of anger at myself followed by a heavy cold sadness, panic and fear. Then I start to get a small headache, clammy feeling overcomea my body, I start feeling naucious and then the next thing I know, my girlfriend is waking me up trying to pick me up off the floor. Is this a simple anxiety attack that will go away? Almost everyone experiencing symptoms of a panic attack needs evaluation. Unless the person has a history of having panic attacks, is otherwise healthy, and is experiencing a typical attack, they must be evaluated promptly by a doctor. The level of evaluation depends on many factors. Err on the side of safety when deciding whether to go to a hospital's emergency department. Many of us may know what it feels like to be nervous before a party, or when meeting new people or making an important phone call. Those with social anxiety disorder have very intense versions of those fears — intense fears of being judged by others that cause them to avoid those kinds of situations. For most people, fears of social situations usually subside once the intimidating event has been faced. But in social anxiety disorder, these feelings are persistent and usually last for at least six months. Since panic attacks are caused by overly apprehensive behavior or chronic stress, addressing our overly apprehensive behavior and stress can stop and prevent panic attacks, and eventually, panic disorder. The combination of good self-help information and therapy is the most effective way of addressing overly apprehensive behavior. Accessing good self-help information and applying it is a good way to reduce stress. But over time, you may find yourself experiencing more panic attacks, in a variety of circumstances. Most of these will not be entirely unexpected. Most subsequent attacks occur in response to various cues such as entering a crowded area; a traffic jam; or simply worrying about having a panic attack. But there may still be some surprises: for instance, you might have a nocturnal panic attack, which wakes you out of a sound sleep. Or you might find yourself experiencing odd feelings of depersonalization as you kill some time with friends or colleagues. Antidepressants are used to treat depression, but they can also be helpful for treating anxiety disorders. They may help improve the way your brain uses certain chemicals that control mood or stress. You may need to try several different antidepressant medicines before finding the one that improves your symptoms and has manageable side effects. A medication that has helped you or a close family member in the past will often be considered.
The Certificate II in Electrotechnology provides the essential foundations for a career working in a variety of Electrotechnology related roles. Through this course students learn how to safely assemble electronic components, use of routine equipment and customer service. What you will learn: - Apply environment talk and sustainable procedures in the energy sector - Apply OHS regulations, policies, codes and procedures in the electronics industry - Identify and select components, accessories and materials for energy sector work activities - Carry out routine work activities in an energy sector environment - Use of routine equipment, plant, technologies in an energy sector environment - Solve problems in d.c. circuits Students are also introduced into the principles of sustainable energy and have the opportunity to acquire basic skills and knowledge of electrical principles that relate to Electrotechnology. This includes basic sustainable energy reduction in a domestic premises environment, develop skills to apply sustainable energy practices in daily activities and develop knowledge that promotes sustainable energy practices in the community. The Certificate II in Electrotechnology is delivered over 5 terms. During the first term, all students also undertake the Vocational Preparation course.
Kissing under sprigs of mistletoe is a well-known holiday tradition, but this little plant’s history as a symbolic herb dates back thousands of years. The Greeks were known to use it as a cure for everything from menstrual cramps to spleen disorders, and the Roman naturalist Pliny the Elder noted it could be used as a balm against epilepsy, ulcers and poisons. The plant’s romantic overtones most likely started with the Celtic Druids of the 1st century A.D. Because mistletoe could blossom even during the frozen winter, the Druids came to view it as a sacred symbol of vivacity, and they administered it to humans and animals alike in the hope of restoring fertility. Another famous chapter in mistletoe folklore comes from Norse mythology. As the story goes, when the god Odin’s son Baldur was prophesied to die, his mother Frigg, the goddess of love, went to all the animals and plants of the natural world to secure an oath that they would not harm him. But Frigg neglected to consult with the unassuming mistletoe, so the scheming god Loki made an arrow from the plant and saw that it was used to kill the otherwise invincible Baldur. According to one sunnier version of the myth, the gods were able to resurrect Baldur from the dead. Delighted, Frigg then declared mistletoe a symbol of love and vowed to plant a kiss on all those who passed beneath it. Recommended for you Mistletoe’s associations with fertility and vitality continued through the Middle Ages, and by the 18th century it had become widely incorporated into Christmas celebrations. Just how it made the jump from sacred herb to holiday decoration remains up for debate, but the kissing tradition appears to have first caught on among servants in England before spreading to the middle classes. As part of the early custom, men were allowed to steal a kiss from any woman caught standing under the mistletoe, and refusing was viewed as bad luck. Yet another tradition instructed the merrymakers to pluck a single berry from the mistletoe with each kiss, and to stop smooching once they were all gone. READ MORE: 25 Christmas Traditions and Their Origins
In a recent op-ed in Al Jazeera, Caucasus political analyst Richard Giragosian argued that Russia, desperate to retain its influence in the former Soviet space, seeks to spark an armed conflict in Nagorno-Karabakh (Artsakh). Specifically, he asserted that the military build-up between Armenia and Azerbaijan has “greatly enhanced Russian power and influence” and that “the looming risk of ‘war by accident’ may be a tempting tool for Moscow to consolidate its leverage in the region by provoking, promoting and then exploiting renewed hostilities.” The move, wrote Giragosian, could “garner greater dividends for Russian hard power.” He added that this “stems from the Russian desire to further project its power in the South Caucasus by seeking to spark further military confrontation in order to deploy Russian peacekeepers to Nagorno-Karabakh.” The notion that Russia aims to purposefully instigate a war between Armenia and Azerbaijan is illogical and conflicts with the basic realities of the Caucasus region. The allegation by Giragosian is an extreme version of the idea of Russia using the Nagorno-Karabakh issue as a “divide and rule” mechanism to retain Armenia and Azerbaijan in its sphere of influence. This concept is derived from a flawed historical understanding of the origins of the dispute, which attributed the assignment of Nagorno-Karabakh to Azerbaijan to the cynical interests of Stalin and Soviet Russia. However, this myth has recently been put to rest. The historical research of the scholar, Arsene Saparov, persuasively argued that Nagorno-Karabakh was assigned to Soviet Azerbaijan based on the fact that it was, despite its overwhelming Armenian majority, controlled by Azerbaijan at the time of Sovietization. Simply put, it was easier for the Bolsheviks to sanction the pre-existing situation on the ground while giving the Armenians the concession of political autonomy, a solution that satisfied neither side. Stalin, far from the height of his power, played only a minor role. This debunked divide-and-rule premise notwithstanding, the idea that Russia would want a war in Nagorno-Karabakh also runs contrary to Russia’s strategic interests in the region. Russia’s primary interest is stability and security, not war and chaos. This is especially important given Russia’s concerns with the rise of Islamic extremism in the North Caucasus. Specifically, Moscow wants to shore up its position in the region by having a secure buffer of friendly states south of the Caucasus Mountains that will help it contain and isolate this threat. Armenia, Russia’s main military ally in Transcaucasia, is a key part of this strategy. Georgia, which has its own problem with Islamic extremists, is likewise an important component of it. However, Russo-Georgian tension, especially during Mikheil Saakashvili’s presidency, has hindered these efforts. The current Georgian government, led by the pragmatist prime minister Irakli Garibashvili, seeks to mend Russo-Georgian ties—and with good reason. Georgia’s Pankisi Gorge, home to a Chechen subgroup known as the Kists, has become a prime target for ISIS recruiting efforts. One of its natives is Omar al-Shishani (born Tarkhan Batirashvili), a veteran of the 2008 war in Georgia and now a top ISIS commander. This has raised much concern in Moscow, which faces a similar problem across the border in the North Caucasus. In a recent 60 Minutes interview with Charlie Rose, Russian President Vladimir Putin noted that “more than 2,000 fighters from Russia and Ex-Soviet Republics” are fighting on Syrian territory. This only underscores the need for cooperation between Tbilisi and Moscow. Both share a common interest in combating the spread of terrorism and Islamic extremism in Pankisi and in the Caucasus generally. Yerevan too shares this interest. In fact, for both Armenia and Georgia, the presence of ISIS in the neighborhood has reawakened bad historical memories. Having a large country like Russia nearby to ward off such threats is a major advantage for the security of both states. Russia’s concerns in the Caucasus are not just limited to Islamic extremism. Moscow is also troubled by efforts, led by the United States, to expand NATO, to promote Western-backed energy projects, and to encourage pro-Western “color revolutions” in the region. Russia is perplexed by these moves, which it regards as a continuation of Cold War containment. These measures are also viewed by the Kremlin as creating the conditions for instability in the region, as the 2008 war in Georgia demonstrated. Given this, a war in Nagorno-Karabakh, especially in light of recent events in Ukraine and Syria, is the absolute last thing that Russia wants or needs. This explains the reason for the Russian-backed Sochi summit on Nagorno-Karabakh in August 2014. Hostilities on the ceasefire line between the sides reached alarming levels and Russian President Putin sought to calm tensions between Baku and Yerevan. If Russia really wanted a war, it would have permitted the ceasefire violations to escalate until a major conflict erupted. Instead, Russia sought to avert that prospect. In Giragosian’s view, “Russia has largely benefitted from the unresolved nature of the conflict” over Nagorno-Karabakh since the 1994 ceasefire. This is not the case. Although the tenuous ceasefire has maintained some peace and stability in the region, in the long term, Russia is not interested in seeing any renewed hostilities over Nagorno-Karabakh. At the same time, long-term solutions to the issue have been elusive; Putin and other Russian officials acknowledge this. Nevertheless, Giragosian is correct on one point; Russia has indeed supplied both sides with weapons. It is true that Moscow has cautiously supplied weapons to Azerbaijan, in part to entice it to join the Eurasian Union. However, the political reality is that Armenia remains Russia’s major military ally and most reliable partner in Transcaucasia. Russia’s major military infrastructure in the region, including the 102nd military base at Gyumri, is located in Armenia. Further, Moscow’s military obligations and security guarantees to Yerevan remain firm. The Russian-Armenian relationship, determined by hard political factors and security interests, is mutually beneficial for both countries. For Armenia, Russia remains the strongest guarantor for its security against potential threats and concerns from its hostile neighbors, Turkey and Azerbaijan. For Russia, Armenia remains an important and friendly pillar in a strategically vital region. The conclusion of Giragosian’s piece is that, “…the danger of a ‘war by accident’ over Nagorno-Karabakh necessitates much more strategic scrutiny and greater attention by the West. This remote and fairly removed conflict can no longer be so easily ceded to Russian control. Moscow has been afforded too much room as a primary actor for far too long.” This conclusion is based on another troubling premise. The West, he wrote, “can no longer so easily cede” the Nagorno-Karabakh dispute to Russia. However, is the dispute the West’s to “cede” at all? Conflicts, such as the one in Nagorno-Karabakh, are not pieces in a “great game” between the “great powers” on a “grand chessboard” (to quote Zbigniew Brzezinski). Instead, they are international disputes that require international cooperation, not competition. In addition, the view that the West can “cede” the dispute to Moscow also implies that Armenia, Georgia, and other post-Soviet countries are objects that can be “ceded” from one power to another. According to this perspective, Yerevan, Baku, Tbilisi, Kiev, Astana, and others are not independent political players, whose relations with Moscow and the West are determined by savvy, pragmatic interests. In this view, they cannot decide for themselves what kind of future or political system they should have. This problematic position also arises from an outlook based on international competition, not cooperation. However, the Caucasus needs much more of the latter and much less of the former if is to find peace, security, and stability. The views expressed by the author are his own and do not necessarily reflect the opinion of The Armenite.
What acidifies and what deacidifies the body? Acidification of the body without two tasks will have a negative impact on us. It is worth to learn how what we eat affects our body. It is good to know the foods that acidify the body and those that can help in its deacidification. Acidification of the body can manifest itself in many different ways. The most common symptoms include general weakness, fatigue, and problems such as cold hands and feet. The strong smell of sweat and the sour smell of urine are also characteristic. Effects of acidification on health Acidification of the body affects our skin, because often during acidification a skin change, acne or dryness of the skin may occur. The tongue may have a specific bloom, the aftertaste in the mouth will be unpleasant. Often in the case of acidification we also have problems with caries, brittleness of hair, nails. In addition, bone and muscle pains may also occur. Gastrointestinal and intestinal problems as well as constipation and flatulence often occur during acidification. The body's immune system will decrease significantly. We are much more susceptible to infections and colds. There may be a problem with allergies, rashes or urticaria. Orange peel, shadows under the eyes are also the result of the body's acidification. Acidification of the body has a negative effect on us without a doubt. Read the article and find out how what you eat affects your body. Discover the foods that acidify your body and those that help you to deacidify it! Acidifying products for the body It is worth knowing what products will acidify and the list is really long. These will be fruits, cereals, seeds, milk products, alcohol, grains, legumes, pasta, animal proteins or processed products. In particular, however, these will be such nutrients as wheat, white bread, pasta, sweetened juices, cranberries, dried plums, blueberries, dough and other sweets and pork, beef, poultry, mutton or cheese and peanuts, cashew nuts, pistachios, buckwheat groats, whole rice, rye and wheat flour, ketchup, mustard, marinades, highly processed products with plenty of salt. Products deacidifying the body Instead, you will have to focus on products that have an alkalizing effect on your body: green vegetables such as asparagus, broccoli, fresh spinach, marrow, lettuce, courgette, onion, garlic, celery, parsley, herbal tea, olive oil, fruit juices (unsweetened!).), fruits such as grapefruit, pears, apples, grapes, melons, kiwi, lemon and its juice, mango, papaya, lime, watermelon, sweet potatoes, raisins, dates, almonds, figs. Consumption of products from both groups will be important, but first of all the balance of these products, which must be about 80% alkalizing and 20% acidifying, must be put on the right balance.
Coercion & Choice People have a need to be autonomous and it is natural for us to dislike it when people try to control us. Most people don't like being told what to do and enjoy having choices. Providing students with as much choice as possible will have a positive effect on motivation. The presence of choice changes the brain’s chemistry by releasing endorphins, which reduces stress and increase the positive feelings associated with the learning experience. How can choice be purposefully built into every learning experience? What will convince teachers to learn about the effects of coercion and opt instead to build in more choice in an effort to motivate students? - One way people respond to coercion is to just comply and do what is necessary. The downside of this may be that they are never inspired to strive for more. - People who have a very strong need for autonomy will not comply and may even fail in order to maintain control. - Using coercion can have a negative affect on helping kids develop a love for learning. - Classrooms that focus mainly on direct instruction often offer learners minimal choice. - Lack of choice releases norepinephrine which affects attitude and motivation. - Too little direction and too much choice = learners will only do things that are familiar. - Too little choice and too much direction = learners don’t develop a passion for learning. Striving for a balance of choice and direction is best in a learning environment. - Choice = lower stress levels (release of dopamine and serotonin) which in turn results in positive feelings about the experience. - Choice theory, developed by William Glasser, MD, is based on the fact that people are internally motivated by our needs as opposed to being motivated by external factors. And that all of our behaviors serve the purpose of helping meet our human needs: safety & security, connection & belonging, power & competence, freedom & autonomy and enjoyment & fun. The strengths of the basic needs differ from person to person. Some people are more motivated to connect and belong while others are more motivated by freedom and autonomy. Developing an understanding of choice theory helps teachers not only develop learning experiences that meet standards but also help student's meet individual needs. This will in turn contribute to motivation. - Structure the classroom experiences to meet student's needs so that students will be motivated to learn what we are teaching is very different from getting them to comply by using external reward systems and coercion. - Limit controlling language and using expressions that offer choice (“You might like to try... Others have found... You may find… ”) puts the control in the learners mind. - Many opportunities for students to make simple choices can be worked into the school day (order in which to complete tasks, where to sit, colors to use, etc.) - There is always more than one way to arrive at the same destination. Offering choice often takes the emphasis off the "have to" and helps students feel more in control. Make sure students are aware of the choices provided to help them see the freedoms and help to eliminate power struggles. This can lead to increased motivation.
Introduce movement, joy and success into the learning process by building the physical learning skills most conducive to cognitive, behavioral, and academic abilities. Improve general brain functions related to learning, coordination, communication and physical performance. Physical movement activates and grows the neural wiring throughout the body, making the whole body the instrument of learning, not just the brain. Fun-filled games and activities help children develop gross motor skills, increase balance, enhance directionality, and stress left/right discrimination. Activities for preschoolers and early childhood are helpful for skills development. Children learn best when they are engaged in an activity, and having fun. Preschool games and exercises help promote use of gross motor skills. Physical movement activates and grows the neural wiring throughout the body, making the whole body the instrument of learning, not just the brain. Balls and Ball Accessories Therapy balls and ball chairs improve posture, sitting tolerance and attention to task. They are the ideal medium for balance, core strengthening and proprioceptive activities. These lightweight mats allow for easy roll-up, storage, or carrying. Putty helps strengthen fingers and hands while developing gross motor and fine motor skills. The Courageous Pacers Program is a fun and easy-to-follow program developed to help students become more active.
Commentary: a structure that has a roof and walls and stands more less permanently in one place There was a three-story building on the corner. Those are luxury apartment buildings. You can park in the lower level of that building complex. WordNet 2.0 Sense Numbers: 1 Commentary: the occupants of a building The entire building complained about the noise. My building meets in the common room for a weekly game of scrabble. WordNet 2.0 Sense Numbers: 4 Commentary: BUILDING[+event] the activity of constructing or building something The building of the skyscraper took three months. During the building we had to take a detour. His hobby was boat building. The architect did not comply with certain building codes. Protein is a major building block of our bodies. You'll need a building permit to put up a greenhouse in your backyard. The building materials we'll need for our patio include sand, bricks, and wood. WordNet 2.0 Sense Numbers: 2 Building and steel have both lost workers in the last several years. (the industry as a whole) They now run a major building firm in Ohio. Workers in the building trades have rough hands. WordNet 2.0 Sense Numbers: 3 Commentary: Automatically generated NOTA sense (bbn)
Mya Maples, left, and Amanda Williams give a presentation on the the 'Tushy Cushy Chair Pad' they invented for their science project at Jessie Beck Elementary School. - Filed Under Jesse Beck Elementary School student Gianna Lotito's science experiment with night crawlers resulted in an interesting conclusion: Worms have a sweet tooth. After feeding her worms foods like bread, fruit and chocolate, Lotito offered her conclusion in her presentation, entitled "Worm Food Mystery," to her peers at school, part of a two-day science conference that Beck teacher Ryan Brock organizes for the school's fifth- and sixth-graders. It's science fair season in the Washoe County School District, when students like Lotito have the chance to explore their own ideas and pursue ...
A new report by Biffa says there is a “once-in-a-generation” opportunity for the UK to make an £18 billion investment in dozens of new onshore recycling and energy facilities that will deliver the country’s ambitions for a net zero, circular economy. Improving the recyclability of household packaging, banning plastic waste exports and increasing surplus food redistribution would also play key roles, the report from the sustainable waste and recycling firm says. The move would unlock 43 million tonnes of circular raw materials annually to support sustainable manufacturing and consumption in the UK, Biffa says, creating 16,000 high-quality jobs, reducing carbon emissions by up to 7.1 million tonnes a year and improving domestic energy security. The report, “From Waste Hierarchy to Carbon Hierarchy: Biffa’s Blueprint for Waste Net Zero”, says the UK’s waste sector has transformed from a landfill-dependent model to one prioritising recycling and energy recovery. Too many materials are not designed for recyclability, and collections systems are often inconsistent and unclear. In the report, Biffa called for several changes to policy. These included embracing the move from waste hierarchy to carbon hierarchy waste, driving more adoption of recycled plastics, considering a moratorium on more energy recovery facilities; push for more action to phase out waste export, accepting that landfill will continue to play a role and championing a zero emissions, competitive collections market. The report also recognises the “huge progress made”, with UK household waste to landfill falling by 50% from 2010 to 2020, and carbon emissions reducing by 69% from 1990, making the UK’s waste sector a stand-out contributor to carbon reduction. See how Greenzone are doing there bit here In the report, Michael Topham, Biffa’s Chief Executive Officer, said: “Nonetheless, whilst this transition is to be celebrated, the task is nowhere near complete. The UK still produces too much waste and doesn’t recycle enough of it. “After nearly two decades of success, recycling levels in the UK have plateaued at around 44%. Too many materials are not designed for recyclability, and collections systems are often inconsistent and unclear. And where we do recycle, we remain too dependent on export markets as an end destination for materials.” Topham says the transformation can be achieved using “existing, proven technologies and processes, and that there is a vibrant, competitive, skilled sector with the access to the capital to make this happen”.
Tuesday, January 18, 2011 As I posted earlier, this winter is going to be tough on the animals that try to survive the winter in the northern Great Plains. We are now only 10 inches shy of breaking the record for the greatest amount of snow during a winter and well above average (the word "normal" doesn't apply to any measures of Great Plains weather). Earlier this week I was able to get out and watch a rather large herd of Pronghorn that has probably made their way from summer ranges in the border region between Montana and Saskatchewan. Much of the herd was gathered in small groups resting on the slopes of the south facing hills that span the northern edge of the Milk River valley. Others had moved out into the valley itself and were foraging in the deep snow. They were working hard to find any forage in the snow, pawing and digging to get down to the grass. They appeared to have hit all the easy patches and were working their way to the sage and grass remaining in the areas with deeper snow. Animals were moving back and forth in small groups looking for additional patches of forage. This is about as far south as this herd can get without crossing some rather large barriers. In the photo above behind the animals you can see a barb wire fence (which can be rather tough barriers for pronghorn movement), and probably more detrimental, the triple barrier of a major highway (US 2), a major railway, and the Milk River itself. Throughout much of the HiLine portion of Montana (along Highway 2) these features are very close to each other and do a pretty good job of limiting the ability of these animals to move further south. Only in one section do these features spread out enough that each of the barriers becomes surmountable and animals move south much more freely. Posted by John Carlson at 7:20 PM
- freely available Challenges 2014, 5(1), 123-137; doi:10.3390/challe5010123 Abstract: Urban water systems face sustainability and resiliency challenges including water leaks, over-use, quality issues, and response to drought and natural disasters. Information and communications technology (ICT) could help address these challenges through the development of smart water grids that network and automate monitoring and control devices. While progress is being made on technology elements, as a system, the smart water grid has received scant attention. This article aims to raise awareness of the systems-level idea of smart water grids by reviewing the technology elements and their integration into smart water systems, discussing potential sustainability and resiliency benefits, and challenges relating to the adoption of smart water grids. Water losses and inefficient use stand out as promising areas for applications of smart water grids. Potential barriers to the adoption of smart water grids include lack of funding for research and development, economic disincentives as well as institutional and political structures that favor the current system. It is our hope that future work can clarify the benefits of smart water grids and address challenges to their further development. Modern infrastructures—including urban water grids—face sustainability and resiliency challenges. Changes in climate and population are making water supplies scarcer in some areas [1,2,3]. Water systems often waste substantial quantities of treated water in both the distribution system and at the end-use location, mainly through leaks [4,5]. In many places, such as the Southwest U.S., water must be conveyed over long distances to water treatment plants, resulting in the use of significant amounts of energy for pumping . Maintaining water quality also remains a challenge in the distribution system, where contaminant intrusion and biofilms reduce water quality [7,8]. Problems with end-user plumbing can then further decrease water quality. The water distribution system is also vulnerable to targeted attacks through water poisoning, as well as catastrophic water main breaks due to undetected pipe deterioration [3,9]. Technological revolutions such as electricity and the combustion engine transform economies and societies, including supporting infrastructures supplying water, energy, and mobility. Information and communications technology (ICT) has been the dominant technological revolution for several decades. In addition to economic and social effects, ICT also drives changes in environmental issues and add to the portfolio of potential solutions . The benefits of ICTs can presumably be enhanced through intentional adoption for sustainability and resiliency. Compared to manufacturing and service sectors, adoption of ICT in infrastructure is relatively slow. One factor is presumably longer replacement time scales. The last decade has seen progress in the development of the smart electrical grid . Smart electric meters and other two-way communication devices have been installed in homes and businesses to allow electric utilities to track electrical usage in real-time. This allows utilities to make continual adjustments to the system. Whether responding to a power transformer failure or trying to help shift electrical usage to off-peak time, the hope is that smart electrical grid will make power generation and delivery more efficient and resilient and less costly, while reducing total energy use . Using ICTs in water systems could lead to smart water grids that are analogous to smart electrical grids. A smart water grid would integrate sensors, controls, and analytical components to ensure that water is efficiently delivered only when and where it is needed and help to ensure the quality of that water. Considering smart water grids as integrated systems is just beginning to be considered by researchers and utilities. In the literature, there are efforts to develop and analyze the components of smart water grids. Some of the literature focuses on the benefits of specific technologies such as smart pumps . Other research takes a step further and analyzes the implementation of specific smart technology systems, such as automated meter reading (AMR) and advanced metering infrastructure (AMI) for water infrastructure, which are two different systems for using smart water meters for residential and commercial water consumption billing [14,15]. However, integrative, strategic, and macro-level discussions of smart water grids are lacking in academic and other literatures. This paper begins to fill this gap by presenting a vision of how smart technologies could be implemented at several scales and combined to contribute to more sustainable and resilient water systems. Additionally, this paper seeks to outline the challenges to the realization of smart water grids. It is interesting to note that the smart phone is a marvel of modern information technology that is owned by hundreds of millions of consumers around the world. In contrast, much of the technology for water distribution and use is similar to that of fifty, or even a hundred years ago. Outside of the water treatment plant, there is little use of information technology in water systems. Clearly, there are structural differences in markets for personal information products versus water infrastructure underlying this dramatic gap in adoption. It is important to understand the barriers to the adoption of smart water grids and in the following sections, some issues are proposed. For this initial work, the focus is on drinking water distribution in an urban environment. Future work beyond the current scope would include more environments and other parts of the water cycle. For example, agriculture is an important part of a complete vision for the smart water grid given its high share of water use. In Section 2, we present an overview of the technological elements of the smart water grid in a systems context. Section 3 is a summary of sustainability and resiliency challenges for urban water systems and how smart water technologies could contribute to addressing these issues. In Section 4, example communities beginning to implement smart water grids are described. Finally, in Section 5, funding and economic issues we view are important challenges are summarized. 2. Overview of Smart Water Grid Technologies and Systems 2.1. General Overview A theoretical smart water grid begins at the water source, where smart meters, smart valves, smart pumps, and flood sensors are installed. Water continues on through water treatment with more smart meters, valves, and pumps. Within the city water distribution system, there is the addition of water contaminant sensors. At the end-use locations (homes and businesses), end-use sensing devices, smart irrigation controllers, contaminant sensors, and smart meters may be used. Finally, water moves through the sewage system to wastewater treatment and final use or discharge, where the same technologies used at the beginning of the system are used here too. Figure 1 presents a visual depiction of a smart water grid. 2.2. Technological Description 2.2.1. Sensing Devices Sensing devices that collect and transmit data about the water system on a real-time basis is the foundation of any smart water grid. At the municipal level, the most common way to monitor the water delivery system has been to manually read flow and pressure meters, while water contamination is commonly monitored by collecting water samples that are analyzed in a laboratory environment. In a smart water grid system, these parameters would be collected, stored, and transmitted to a computer by the meter itself, or from a sensor to detect contamination. This increases the amount and frequency of information about the system and decreases the need for field work. Smart sensors for municipalities include smart water meters for flow, smart water meters for pressure, and contaminant sensors and biosensors for contamination detection [16,17]. Smart water meters have additional advantages over manual meters. One of these advantages is increased sensitivity to low water flows, which increases data collection accuracy. Other advantages of these more sensitive meters include the ability to measure backflow, which can indicate a problem in the system. They are also less susceptible to corrosion from particles in the system . Whether in a residential, commercial or industrial setting, the typical situation for water use detection is a single flow meter measuring total water consumption of a facility. How total water consumption breaks down for different uses is generally not measured. Only measuring total flow has two disadvantages: leaks are difficult to detect by metering and users lack information on potential inefficiencies in the system. One option is to install additional meters within a facility. With current technology, installing meters for every fixture would be prohibitively expensive for most end-users. An alternative to installing additional flow meters is to use a device that measure pressure waves. Each fixture has a pressure “signature” that propagates through the piping system, and a sensitive pressure-gauge can distinguish between these signatures. The HydroSense technology developed by Jon Froehlich and others needs only one sensor to determine the disaggregated use of all fixtures (e.g., faucets, toilets, and dishwashers) in a single family home . If a fixture starts to leak, the end-use sensing device will pick up this flow as “noise” in the system. For larger end-users, multiple smart meters and end-use sensing devices would be more appropriate. The key point is that a combined flow meter and pressure sensor system requires fewer devices, substantially reducing costs. A technological addition to the water system that is useful for water storage is the flood sensor. Flood sensors detect strain on water infrastructure, such as dams, and detect early flooding over flood embankments . 2.2.2. System Controls—Smart Pumps and Valves Smart valves and pumps adjust their operations based on environmental conditions or signals from sensors. These adjustments can happen automatically or remotely by a human controller. The main benefit of smart controllers is increased efficiency. For example, variable speed pumps sense water conditions and will ramp up or down depending on those conditions. These pumps can also be equipped to sense clogs in the system and respond by breaking up clogs and/or reversing the flow. This is especially useful for wastewater and raw water conveyance. One manufacturer of a smart pump estimates up to 70% cost savings over the life cycle of the pump . Smart valves adjust or block the flow of water in pipes based on environmental conditions. They can be used as part of pressure management strategies, as a part of leak detection activities, or to prevent environmental contamination due to combined sewer overflows [21,22]. At the end-use level, smart irrigation controllers show promise in helping to save water that is wasted on landscape irrigation. Smart irrigation controllers can receive and/or collect weather data or sense soil moisture levels, as well as other parameters, which helps determine proper water scheduling. Using this information, the watering schedule can be updated automatically on a daily basis. The valves and pumps that implement the actual watering of the landscape will then turn on and off at best times possible . 2.2.3. Data Transmission and Power Once data is collected and stored temporarily in a data logger connected to a sensing/control device, it needs to be transmitted to a centralized location. Direct line transmission via cable is ideal in principle, because there would be no practical limits on bandwidth. While direct connection is an attractive option within an end-user facility, it may not be practical to hardwire the water delivery system. Another possibility is to bridge the smart meter from the broadband systems of water customers to the utility, but this is organizationally infeasible as the utility cannot be dependent on the end-user. These jurisdictional and technical issues make wireless data transmission an attractive approach. Because the smart water grid is comprised of various technologies with different data transmission goals, a variety of wireless technologies and protocols are potentially useful. This includes mobile broadband (cellular towers), wireless broadband (Wi-Fi), personal area networks (device-to-device transmission), and satellite communication. For example, AMR, which is a drive-by meter reading system via personal area networks, is already becoming a common alternative to manual meter reading for water utilities for their water billing programs. In addition, satellite communication is a common technology used by smart irrigation controllers companies to update landscape water scheduling on a daily basis. The regularity in spacing of smart water meters suggest that a mesh network design, in which each device is a communication hub for neighboring devices, is a promising approach for the smart water grid . Another promising technology for smart water grids is a wireless protocol able to broadcast a signal up to 45 miles that is designed specifically for smart meter communication . Another issue that comes up with wired or wireless communication is the powering of devices. Direct connection to the power grid is feasible within a facility, but for devices on the water distribution system, off-grid power may be needed. This means that the power needed by the device to use a particular wireless technology/protocol will be an issue, along with the frequency of data collection and transmission by the device. Current off-grid power solutions include solar panels, water turbines, and long-life batteries [18,26,27,28]. The wireless communication protocol developed just for smart grids has the advantage of low-power usage . 3. Urban Water System Issues and Potential Smart Solutions The section provides an overview of sustainability and resiliency issues for urban water systems: Losses, waste/overuse, quality, energy consumption, disasters and drought. The potential of the smart water grid to address each issue is reviewed, focusing not only on individual technological solutions, but also the combination of technologies to create a problem-solving system. 3.1. Water Losses Water losses occur from leaks, unmetered consumption (legal or illegal), and meter inaccuracies . A multi-city study done by Mayer and DeOreo found that 13.7% of indoor residential water use is due to leaking water fixtures in the U.S. . At the level of the municipality and distribution system, the percent of water lost varies by location, from 3 to 8 percent in newer cities and 25 to 30 percent in older cities . Smart meters and end-use sensing devices can help with leak detection. For example, continuous data from a residential smart meter could reveal a leak by showing a positive water flow when all fixtures are off. Finding leaks in municipal water supply could also be accomplished through smart step testing. Traditional step testing involves manually monitoring the flow rate on a section of pipe, while manually turning off valves in order to pinpoint the section of pipe a leak is located in—a water flow in an isolated pipe means there is a leak. With a smart step testing system, smart valves and smart meters can replace workers out in the field and would require only one person at a computer terminal. The process could even be automated, only requiring human attention if something goes wrong. 3.2. Water Waste/Over-Use Water waste/over-use can be defined as consuming more water than is needed to achieve the desired function, e.g., maintaining landscape, flushing toilets, and cleaning dishes. Water conservation has seen improvement in recent decades through low-flow fixtures and educational campaigns . An area where water over-use has yet to be addressed is watering of urban landscapes in water scarce regions. Landscape watering is significant in these locations, where more than 50% of the total household water used goes to landscaping, especially in the summer months. Comparing three U.S. cities, a residential home in Las Vegas may use 100 gallons per day of water for outdoor uses, while Atlanta homes may use 21 gallons and in Seattle, 9 gallons . In arid regions, irrigation controllers are often used to apply water to landscapes. It is challenging to use traditional irrigation controllers to both save water and keep plants healthy. Smart irrigation controllers have the potential to manage this for the homeowner. In studies of smart irrigation controllers in the Western U.S., on average homeowners save water, though there are cases where water use increases when the end-user was actually under-watering their landscape before installing the smart irrigation controller [31,32]. Currently, smart irrigation controllers are not economically profitable for most homeowners, even in the arid West. There are, however, many areas in the U.S. where the investment in a smart irrigation controller would be profitable given modest improvements in design and reduction in prices . 3.3. Water Quality Water quality monitoring in the water distribution system and end-use pipe system is usually very limited. At the same time, 30 to 60 percent of contamination events occur in the water distribution system. These events are often detected by consumers who have already been exposed. Once the existence of a problem is discovered, it may take days to identify the source of the event in order to fix it . The water quality in the drinking water distribution system can be affected by several factors including disinfectant depletion (water age), contaminant intrusion from pressure differentials and pipe work (i.e., installation, repair, and replacement), biofilms, pipe corrosion, accidents, and terrorism [7,8,34,35,36]. In a smart water grid, biosensors and multi-contaminant sensors could alert authorities to potential problems and their location immediately, while smart meters could detect leaks and pressure differentials that cause contaminant intrusion. Smart meters could also help in the monitoring of water age. Lastly, smart valves can isolate contaminated water to prevent its spread through the distribution system. 3.4. Energy Consumption The most energy intensive portions of water delivery are usually source pumping and wastewater treatment [6,37]. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) estimates that it takes an average of 1.5 kilowatt-hours of energy to convey, treat, and distribute one thousand gallons of drinking water in the U.S. . In the southern Los Angeles basin the estimate is 9.9 kilowatt-hours per thousand gallons . This larger energy consumption is mainly due to the long distances and altitude changes for conveying water from source to drinking water treatment plant. Undetected leaks and biofilms can also increase energy consumption. Leaks in the distribution system result in a loss of water pressure. Energy is required to rebalance this pressure loss. In turn, increasing the pressure actually increases the severity of the leaks, which means more water and energy lost . Biofilms increase the frictional resistance in pipes, slowing the water down, resulting in increased pumping to compensate . If pumping distances in the Southwest U.S. cannot be reduced, the use of smart pumps has the potential to at least reduce the energy consumption of pumping water, because they adjust their power levels based on environmental conditions—ramping up when water is flowing slowly and ramping down when water is flowing quickly . Smart pumps can also be used in the distribution system as part of a smart pressure management program. Used in the same way as smart step testing described previously, smart pressure management with smart pressure meters, smart valves, and smart pumps can reduce pipe deterioration. This saves energy in the long-run, because leaky pipes lose pressure and require more energy to balance. Lastly, biosensors can locate problematic biofilms that slow the water flow. Disasters that affect urban water systems include water main breaks, weather and geologic events, terrorism, and accidents. Pipes normally break down as they age. Their breakdown can be accelerated, however, due to corrosive elements in the water or surrounding the pipe, high water pressure, pressure transients, vibrations, and traffic loads . Eventually, the stress in the pipes may reach a point that causes a water main break. Weather events, geologic events, terrorism, and accidents can directly cause damage to water infrastructure or damage water infrastructure through a domino effect [41,42]. For example, the terrorist attack on the World Trade Center caused significant damage to water mains and caused flooding that damaged communication infrastructure . Disasters can also shut down water treatment facilities and prevent the distribution of drinking water to taps. Flooding events can also overwhelm sewer systems and prevent the proper disposal of wastes. Smart pressure management could manage and prevent premature pipe deterioration that leads to water main breaks. Flood sensors could also detect a pipe that is about to break and alert authorities. Smart flood management could detect flooding and respond to reduce the amount of damaged caused using flood sensors, smart valves, and smart pumps. Flood sensors could detect a pipe break, which would trigger a smart valve to shut off the water supply. Then, a smart pump could pump water away from the immediate area. Drought is currently a resiliency challenge in many areas and climate change may increase the magnitude, frequency, and locations of impact [2,43]. A typical strategy that municipalities employ to deal with short-term drought is to impose blanket, outdoor watering restrictions on residential customers . There are several downsides to this strategy. First, it requires the type of enforcement that involves patrolling streets to look at people’s lawns, which is resource intensive, and neighbors reporting each other, which is socially negative. Second, it may result in a loss of a household’s landscaping. This type of loss would affect residents unequally, putting a heavier financial burden on lower income people. Lastly, it may not be an adequate strategy in times of extreme or long-term drought. Long-term drought planning is a complex and is data and modeling intensive. The drought plan for the State of Arizona cites a lack of sufficient data and instruments to predict drought and mitigate its impacts. Two of the mitigation strategies that Arizona has chosen include increasing water storage and conservation . The smart water grid enables more creative solutions for dealing with drought. For example, water restrictions could be managed better with a smart water grid system. Rather than using a simple lawn watering restriction that requires field enforcement and the potential loss of landscapes, a more flexible approach can be taken. If users are able to monitor their own water use on a disaggregated and real-time basis through the use of smart meters and end-use sensing devices, they can make decisions about how to save water during a drought. At the same time, utilities will be able to monitor on a real-time basis and from a remote location, what end-users are saving water during drought and what end-users are not. Alternatively, smart water grids could support temporary drought pricing of water. In the same way that conservation-promoting tiered pricing and smart water meters can help people save money and conserve water on a daily basis through online tools and real-time data, drought pricing can also be supported by smart water grids. Consumers will be able to track their water rates and consumption more easily when drought prices and in use. If water utilities want to change the drought pricing in the middle of a billing period, consumers will easily be able to see this when using their online tools and can adjust their use patterns accordingly. On the broader level of long-term drought and regional water planning, water saved from the reduction of water losses could be banked through water storage projects, creating more water availability during times of drought. Additionally, real-time data from smart water grids can feed into water resource planning and modeling, making drought and long-term water planning a more accurate and dynamic process. 3.7. Summary of Problems Potentially Addressed by Smart Water Grids Table 1 summarizes the connections between smart technology and problems address. Components such as smart valves have the potential to address multiple issues, especially as part of a smart system such as smart step testing. Other components, such as flood sensor, are more limited in their contribution to a smart water grid. |Component||Problem(s) Directly Addressed||Problem(s) Indirectly Addressed||Embedding System for Component| |Smart Meters||Water losses, water quality, disasters, and drought||Energy consumption||Smart step testing and smart pressure management| |Contaminant Sensors||Water quality||Energy consumption||Contaminant isolation| |End-Use Sensing Devices||Water losses and drought||Energy consumption||N/A| |Flood Sensor||Disasters||N/A||Smart flood management| |Smart Valves||Water losses, water quality, and disasters||Energy consumption||Smart step testing, contaminant isolation, smart pressure management, and smart flood management| |Smart Pumps||Energy consumption and Disasters||N/A||Smart pressure management and smart flood management| |Smart Irrigation Controllers||Water waste/overuse||Energy consumption||N/A| 4. Example Communities that are Developing Smart Water Grids A number of communities have begun to install smart water technologies—AMI and AMR are probably the most popular components of the smart water grid that are implemented—but not many have begun to plan and implement a comprehensive smart water grid. Two communities that are partially on the way to implementing smart water grids are Singapore and part of the San Francisco Bay Area. In Singapore, large scale research and development funding has led to a number of smart water grid projects, including the development of a laser-based contaminant sensor and a smart water grid in the Singapore business district. The smart water grid in the business district tracks pressure, flow, and disinfectant levels in the distribution system. This data is transmitted via Singapore’s cell network to a computer center. At the computer center, modeling software is used on the data to locate problems in the water distribution system. Problems can be pinpointed to within 40 meters and when problems are found, an alarm is sent out to the utility [33,45,46]. Singapore has a multistage plan for implementing smart water grids in its city . The East Bay Municipal Utility District (EBMUD) is the drinking water and wastewater utility for the eastern part of the San Francisco Bay Area. The EBMUD has several progressive programs including advanced leak detection device testing and deployment, smart irrigation controller rebates for consumers, and smart metering in conjunction with web-based tools for users. The web-based tools help consumers detect leaks on their property [48,49,50]. Data from the EBMUD’s pilot AMR/AMI program helped the utility discover problems on the consumer end of the water system. When these problems were fixed, there was an average water use reduction of 20% . In Singapore, one of the reasons for the aggressive pursuit of the smart water grid is due to insecure water resources. Singapore relies heavily on rainfall to meet its water needs and does not have enough land for water storage. Whatever reason these communities have for being early adopters of smart water grids, however, they are in the unique position to spread the word about the smart water grid by sharing their research and lessons learned with other communities. 5. Implementation Challenges for the Smart Water Grid Assuming that the smart water grid is desirable, in this section we discuss challenges to its development and adoption in a U.S. context. One challenge is obtaining the funding to implement changes, which includes the lack of a federal agency that focuses on water or the smart water grid and political and institutional barriers to funding and investment. Other challenges involve economic disincentives, such as the lack of new water markets, burdens on smaller utilities, and the cost of actually fixing problems found by a smart water grid. 5.1. Funding and Investment The current U.S. water system has much deteriorating infrastructure due for replacement. It is estimated that it will take 325 billion dollars over the next 20 years to install needed replacements in the U.S. system, including new pipes and meters. One side effect of deteriorating infrastructure is water leaks. It is estimated that municipalities lose 3.4 billion dollars each year to water loses, which are mainly leaks . Presumably, some infrastructure replacements will include upgrades with smart technology, particularly smart water meters. However, many of the benefits of a networked system, like a comprehensive smart water grid, requires scale to be realized—scale that requires an investment that is difficult in the capital constrained environment of most U.S. water utilities. One reason for the lack of investment in smart water grids is a lack of a federal agency’s mission to support its research and development. The electricity sector is supported by the U.S. Department of Energy and the U.S. Department of Defense. The societal benefits of smart water grids span environmental, energy and security issues, but smart water grids have yet to be recognized as important enough to merit significant federal attention. Another reason for the lack of investment and funding in smart water grids is due to institutional and political legacies in the water sector. First, U.S. water utilities were founded on principles of delivering an invisible service at the lowest cost possible . Smart technology can have large upfront costs that many water utilities would be reluctant to pay. Second, water prices are often determined by boards whose membership is determined by popular election. Increasing water prices, even for sensible infrastructure maintenance, is often viewed negatively by voters. The general public tends to take supply of clean and inexpensive water as given. These factors constrain availability of capital. 5.2. Economic Disincentives Water is a monopoly. While smart electrical grid holds promise to create new power markets, this is unlikely to happen for the smart water grid. Water resources are unlike smart electrical grids—the application of smart technology to create producer markets does not work for water, because water is a resource to be distributed (excepting desalinization) rather than something to be made (i.e., electricity) The general lack of incentives to innovate in utilities affects adoption of smart water grid technologies. For any investment in new technology, the benefits should outweigh the costs for those paying. With technology that increases resource efficiency, there is typically a threshold payback period or return on investment. Smaller utilities typically have less capital to invest and water utilities tend to be smaller scale than electricity utilities. For end-use, property renters that pay their own utility bills may have leases that are shorter than the payback period for investments. In cases where property owners’ pay utility bills, property owners may make efficiency upgrades to decrease their utility bill or property owners may just pass on increased daily costs of inefficiency to renters in their monthly rent. An economic issue for both utilities and consumers is the cost and other negative effects of fixing leaks once they are found by a smart water grid. Distribution pipes are often underneath other infrastructure, so accessing leaks to repair involves removing and repairing this other infrastructure. Repair restricts use of those infrastructures, including roads, causing inconvenience to residents. At the home level, some leaks such as faucet leaks or toilet flapper leaks are easy to repair, but some are not. Leaks that occur underground or behind walls may require professional repair, which can be expensive and take many years to pay back to the consumer through lower water bills . Additionally, although the utility is most often responsible for paying for a smart water grid, many of the economic, sustainability, and resiliency benefits of a smart water grid are divided among actors beyond the utility. For example, an end-use smart meter helps the utility via automated meter reading and improved flow data, but also provides value to the end-user by informing efficiency actions. Another example is that a more secure water system benefits society as a whole, but from the perspective of the water utility, it is simply an additional cost. Water infrastructure changes slowly. Many system elements such as pipes, valves and meters last for decades. Barring changes in water regulations, keeping the existing system going can make sense when its components are expensive and long-lived. A smart water grid system needs to achieve a certain size scale to realize many of its benefits, i.e., the utility of a network increases with the number of nodes in the network. Incremental replacement of failed system elements with smart technology will not realize these size scale benefits. This scale issue is qualitatively different for newly developing areas installing water infrastructure for the first time. Newly developing communities and countries have opportunities that established ones do not. Potential benefits of smart water grids include improved leak management, water quality monitoring, intelligent drought management, and energy savings. It is not yet well understood how different implementations of smart water grids yield what benefits and costs. We argue that integrative analysis of multiple benefits for larger-scale smart water grid systems could help pave the way for the future. For example, while viewing the smart water grid purely as a way to reduce water losses might not justify the investment, considering water losses and drought management might tip the balance. In addition, as the benefits can accrue to a number of different actors, e.g., utilities, homeowners, and society as a whole, there are important questions as how to distribute costs among beneficiaries. Support for research and development is needed to enable such work, coupled with cooperation with municipal water utilities. This research is supported by the National Science Foundation Office of Emerging Frontiers in Research and Innovation (EFRI) (grant #0836046). Both authors contributed extensively to this work in all aspects. Eric William’s major contribution was leading the direction of the research, while Michele Mutchek’s major contribution was executing the research and writing of the paper. Conflicts of Interest The authors declare no conflict of interest. - Day, H.; Conway, K. Rule 1: No watts no water, Rule 2: No water no watts. In Proceedings of 24th Annual WasteResue Proceedings of 24th Annual WasteResue Symposium: Where Has All the Water Gone? Water Reuse and Desalinization: Solutions for the Future, Seattle, WA, USA, 13–16 September 2009. - Gertner, J. The Future is Drying Up. The New York Times, 21 October 2007. [Google Scholar] - Hunaidi, O.; Wang, A.; Bracken, M.; Gambino, T.; Fricke, C. Detecting leaks in water distribution pipes. AWW 2005, 29, 52–55. [Google Scholar] - Mayer, P.W.; DeOreo, W.B. Residential End Uses of Water; American Water Works Association: Denver, CO, USA, 1999. [Google Scholar] - McKinnon, S. Cities’ Conservation Goal: Patch Own Water Leaks. The Arizona Republic. 2007. [Google Scholar] - Cohen, M.; Wolff, G.; Nelson, B. Energy Down the Drain: The Hidden Costs of California’s Water Supply; Natural Resources Defense Council: New York, NY, USA, 2004. [Google Scholar] - Hall-Stoodly, L.; Stoodly, P. Biofilm formation and dispersal and the transmission of human pathogens. Trends Microbiol. 2005, 13, 7–10. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef] - Karim, M.; Abbaszadegan, M.; LeChevallier, M. Potential for pathogen intrusion during pressure transients. J. Amer. Water Work. Assn. 2003, 95, 134–146. [Google Scholar] - Distribution System Water Quality Monitoring: Sensor Technology Evaluation Methodology and Results; U.S. Environmental Protection Agency: Cincinnati, OH, USA, 2009. - Williams, E. Environmental effects of information and communication technologies. Nature 2011, 479, 354–358. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef] - Werbos, P.J. Computational Intelligence for the Smart Grid—History, Challenges and Opportunities. IEEE Computational Intelligence Magazine, 14 July 2011, 14–21. [Google Scholar] - The Smart Grid: An Introduction; U.S. Department of Energy: Washington, D.C., USA, 2008. - Brzozowski, C. Pump technology. Water Efficiency 2010, 5, 38–41. [Google Scholar] - Blackwell, M. Making Fixed Network AMI an Integral Part of Your Conservation Plan. In Proceedings of Smart Water Innovations Conference and Exposition, Las Vegas, NV, USA, 6–8 October 2010. - Kenna, B. Water Metering and Revenue Protection; University of Southern Queensland: Southern Queensland, Australia, 2008. [Google Scholar] - Maier, R.M.; Pepper, I.L.; Gerba, C.P. Environmental Microbiology, 2nd ed.; Elsevier Inc.: Burlington, MA, USA, 2009. [Google Scholar] - Vaseashta, A. Technological Advances Water Safety, Security, and Sustainability. In Proceedings of Second International Congress on Sustainability Science and Engineering, Tucson, AZ, USA, 9–12 January 2011. - Engle, D. Leak busters: Ultra-accurate new residential meters and methods can zap “ghost” water accounts. Water Efficiency 2010, 5, 22–29. [Google Scholar] - Froehlich, J.; Larson, E.; Campbell, T.; Haggerty, C.; Fogarty, J.; Patel, S. Hydrosense: Infrastructure-mediated Single-point Sensing of Whole-home Water Activity. In Proceedings of UbiComp 2009, Orlando, FL, USA, 30 September–3 October 2009. - Introduction to Urbanflood. Available online: http://www.urbanflood.eu/Pages/default.aspx (accessed on 8 June 2012). - Ruggaber, T.; Talley, J.; Montestruque, L. Using embedded sensor networks to monitor, control, and reduce cso events: A pilot study. Environ. Eng. Sci. 2007, 24, 172–182. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef] - Mistry, P. Pressure Management to Reduce Water Demand & Leakage; Wide Bay Water Corporation: Queensland, Australia, 2011. [Google Scholar] - Mutchek, M.A.; Williams, E.D. Design space characterization for meeting cost and carbon reduction goals: Smart irrigation controllers in the southwestern United States. J. Ind. Ecol. 2010, 14, 727–739. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef] - Khalifa, T.; Naik, K.; Nayak, A. A survey of communication protocols for automatic meter reading applications. IEEE Commun. Surv. Tutorials 2011, 13, 168–182. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef] - Simonite, T. This 45-mile “Wi-Fi” could connect a smarter power grid. Technol. Rev. 2011. Available online: http://www.technologyreview.com/computing/37881/page1/ (accessed on 10 July 2011). [Google Scholar] - Britton, T.; Cole, G.; Stewart, R.; Wiskar, D. Remote diagnosis of leakage in residential households. Water 2008, 7, 56–60. [Google Scholar] - Kenna, B. Water Metering and Revenue Protection; University of Southern Queensland: Southern Queensland, Australia, 2008. [Google Scholar] - Self-sustaining Faucets. Available online: http://www.totousa.com/Green/Products/EcoPowerFaucets.aspx (accessed on 17 July 2011). - Olmstead, S.M.; Stavins, R.N. Comparing price and nonprice approaches to urban water conservation. Water Resour. Res. 2009, 45. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef] - Cooley, H.; Gleick, P.H. Urban Water-use Efficiencies: Lessons from United States Cities. In The World’s Water: 2008–2009; Gleick, P.H., Ed.; Island Press: Washington, DC, USA, 2009; pp. 101–121. [Google Scholar] - Mayer, P.; DeOreo, W.; Hayden, M.; Davis, R.; Caldwell, E.; Miller, T.; Bickel, P.J. Evaluation of California Weather-Based “Smart” Irrigation Controller Programs; Aquacraft Inc.: Boulder, CO, USA, 2009. [Google Scholar] - Devitt, D.; Carstensen, K.; Morris, R. Residential water savings associated with satellite-based ET irrigation controllers. J. Irrig. Drain. Eng. Asce. 2008, 134, 74–82. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef] - Innovation in Water Singapore: June 2011; PUB: Singapore, 2011. - Effects of Water Age on Distribution System Water Quality; U.S. Environmental Protection Agency: Washington, DC, USA, 2002. - Christopher, G.; Cieslak, T.; Pavlin, J.; Eitzen, E., Jr. Biological warfare: A historical perspective. JAMA 1997, 278, 412–417. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef] - Sadiq, R.; Yehuda, K.; Rajani, B. Estimating risk of contaminant intrusion in water distribution networks using dempster-shafer theory of evidence. Civ. Eng. Environ. Syst. 2006, 23, 129–141. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef] - Hallin, B.; Holton, D. Collaborating on Water/Power Efficiency Programs; Salt River Project: Phoenix, AZ, USA, 2008. [Google Scholar] - Methodology and Assumptions for Estimating Watersense Annual Accomplishments. Available online: http://www.epa.gov/watersense/docs/2010-accomplishments-methodology508.pdf (accessed on 19 June 2010). - Lahlou, Z.M. Leak Detection and Water Loss Control; National Drinking Water Clearinghouse: Morgantown, WV, USA, 2001. [Google Scholar] - Barton, A.F.; Wallis, M.R.; Sargison, J.E.; Buia, A.; Walker, G.J. Hydraulic roughness of biofouled pipes, biofilm character, and measured improvements from cleaning. J. Hydraul. Eng. Asce. 2008, 134, 852–857. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef] - Haimes, Y.; Matalas, N.; Lambert, J.; Jackson, B.; Fellows, J. Reducing vulnerability of water supply systems to attack. J. Infrastr. Syst. 1998, 4, 164–177. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef] - O’Rourke, T.D. Critical infrastructure, interdependencies, resilience. Bridge 2007, 37, 22–29. [Google Scholar] - Mansur, E.T.; Olmstead, S.M. The value of scarce water: Measuring the inefficiency of municipal regulations. J. Urban Econ. 2012, 71, 332–346. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef] - Arizona Drought Preparedness Plan: Background & Impact Assessment Section; State of Arizona Governor’s Drought Task Force: Phoenix, AZ, USA, 2004. - Innovation in Water Singapore: March 2012; PUB: Singapore, 2012. - Innovation in Water Singapore: July 2012; PUB: Singapore, 2012. - Weng, K.T.; Lim, A. Pursuit of a Smart Water Grid in Singapore’s Water Supply Network. In Proceedings of the American Water Works Association Sustainable Water Management Conference, Portland, OR, USA, 18–21 March 2012. - Harris, R. WaterSmart Toolbox: Giving Customers Online Access to Real-time Water Consumption is the Right Tool for Water Efficiency Success. In Proceedings of Smart Water Innovations Conference and Exposition, Las Vegas, NV, USA, 6–8 October 2010. - Harris, R. What Side of the Meter Are You on?: Proactively Looking and Listening for Leaks on Pipes and Aqueducts. In Proceedings of Smart Water Innovations Conference and Exposition, Las Vegas, NV, USA, 6–8 October 2010. - Self-adjusting Irrigation Controller Rebate Program. Available online: http://www.ebmud.com/for-customers/water-conservation-rebates-and-services/self-adjusting-irrigation-controller-rebate-pr (accessed on 6 September 2012). - Rothstein, E.; Galardi, D. Financing Water Utilities’ Sustainability Initiatives: Challenging Institutionalized Governance and Market Failures. In Proceedings of American Water Works Association Sustainable Water Management Conference, Portland, OR, USA, 18–21 March 2012. © 2014 by the authors; licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland. This article is an open access article distributed under the terms and conditions of the Creative Commons Attribution license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/).
On Wednesday, the U.S. House of Representatives introduced a new bill to protect climate refugees. The Climate Displaced Persons Act, written by Rep. Nydia Velázquez (D-N.Y.), would create a new federal program specifically for refugees displaced by climate change. If enacted into law, the U.S. would take in at least 50,000 climate refugees each year, beginning in 2020. Although long overdue, backlash from both President Trump and the Republican-led Senate may stall any attempts to turn this bill into law. Regardless, this bill provides an important blueprint for future policies on climate-related migration. And notably, this bill is the first of its kind to address the growing number of migrants displaced by climate change. What is the Climate Displaced Persons Act? Written in reaction to the rising number of people displaced by climate-related catastrophes, this bill would create an action plan on how the U.S. can help. Since 2009, a climate-related disaster has displaced about one person every second. This rate accounts for extreme weather events, famine, drought, and rising sea levels, among other climate emergencies. Overwhelmingly, 22.5 million people have been displaced due to climate change in the past decade. And the UN speculates that number could rise to 200 million forcibly displaced people by 2050. Accordingly, this bill has two major aims. It intends to “establish a Global Climate Change Resilience Strategy and authorize the admission of climate-displaced persons,” according to its first draft. In particular, the bill entails the U.S. taking on more responsibility in handling the global crisis. It would create a humanitarian program separate from the U.S. refugee admissions program, specifically for those affected by climate change. The new program would guarantee the same benefits for climate refugees. The legislation would also task the Secretary of State with devising a Global Climate Change Resilience Strategy. This is turn will create a Coordinator of Climate Resilience position within the State Department. If made law, the bill will also provide a minimum of 50,000 climate migrants resettlement opportunities in the U.S. each year. New legislation for climate refugees To Rep. Velázquez, immigration policy must acknowledge the role of climate change. “If we are going to meaningfully discuss comprehensive climate equity and climate justice, we must inject security assistance and resettlement opportunities for climate-displaced persons into our conversations,” she said in a press release. So far, the U.S. has failed in this cause. Just last month, President Trump reduced the maximum refugee cap to 18,000 — a new low. And with his administration tightening up on immigration of all kinds, it’s unlikely he’ll loosen up on climate-related migration, to say the least. But President Trump’s refusal to support climate science or immigration hasn’t dissuaded Rep. Velázquez. “Despite this Administration’s efforts to strip the world’s most vulnerable populations of refuge, America will continue to stand tall as a safe haven for immigrants,” she insisted. After its introduction on Wednesday, the House referred the bill to the Committee on Foreign Affairs. The Committees on the Judiciary and Energy and Commerce will also review the bill before the House continues its deliberation. Democrat Edward Markey, a key supporter of the Green New Deal, has introduced a companion bill in the Senate.
- By Jonah Lehrer - July 28, 2010 | - Wired August 2010 Social relationships are a powerful buffer against stress. In fact, several studies in Europe and the US have found that people with fewer friends and family members they’re close to have significantly shorter life expectancies. (The magnitude of the effect is roughly equivalent to smoking cigarettes.) One likely explanation for this phenomenon is the stress of loneliness. Studies of monkeys found that more socially isolated animals have higher levels of stress hormones, a reduced immune response, and a higher mortality rate. Sleep deprivation is not just about feeling tired. Recent studies have found that even a single night of insufficient sleep — whether it’s spent working the night shift or playing World of Warcraft — triggers an automatic spike in stress hormones. And here’s where biology gets cruel: This stress response then makes it harder to fall asleep when you actually want to, since your sympathetic nervous system is revving at a higher rate. The result is more stress and more insomnia, which helps explain why sleep problems are such an important risk factor for depression. While observing baboons, Stanford biologist Robert Sapolsky found there was a set of personality traits linked reliably with lower levels of stress hormones. One of these was the ability to walk away from provocations that might send a normal baboon into a snarling hissy fit. Interestingly, this less aggressive personality turned out to be exceedingly effective: The nice baboons remained near the top of the troop hierarchy about three times longer than the baboons who were easily provoked into a fight. They also had a lot more sex, which is a great stress reliever. Numerous studies have demonstrated that even a short training session in meditation can dramatically reduce levels of stress and anxiety. In fact, a recent study led by Sian Beilock, a psychologist at the University of Chicago, demonstrated that a 10-minute lesson in mindfulness meditation seemed to reduce stress in those taking a high-stakes math exam, leading to a five-point increase on average. She argues that meditation allows people to do a better job of not fixating on negative and stressful thoughts, thus freeing up brain space to focus on the arithmetic. When paratroopers are first learning to parachute, they experience a massive stress response. In fact, one study of Norwegian airmen found that this response started before the jump and lasted for hours afterward. But something interesting happened when the soldiers kept jumping out of planes. Instead of being stressed for hours at a time, they showed elevated levels of stress hormone only while in midair, which is precisely when they needed it. The chronic stress response that causes long-term harm had all but disappeared. Alcohol is an anxiolytic — it melts away anxieties by dampening the response of the sympathetic nervous system and reducing the release of stress hormones. That’s why a beer tastes so good after a long day. But don’t get carried away: While the moderate consumption of alcohol might reduce the stress response, blood alcohol levels above 0.1 percent — most states consider 0.08 the legal limit for driving — trigger a large release of stress hormones. Although you might feel drunkenly relaxed, your body is convinced it’s in a state of mortal danger. While exercise is remarkably effective at blunting the stress response, at least for a few hours, this effect exists only if you want to exercise in the first place. After all, a big reason working out relieves stress is that it elevates your mood; when mice are forced to run in the lab, their levels of stress hormones spike. So when you force yourself to go to the gym and then suffer through 30 minutes on the treadmill (lamenting the experience the entire time), you don’t reduce your stress levels. In fact, you might be making things worse.
Welcome to my weekly fashion blog post. Each week I will discuss a female garment, fashion trend or influencer from the age of photography (1840s through the 20th century). My goal is to educate family researchers and genealogists about the clothing worn by our ancestors. Dating photographs is an issue we all struggle with as family archivists. Additionally, anyone who writes about their family’s history should be aware of the environment in which their ancestors lived. Period clothing is an important part of that environment from how it affects a person’s movement to their overall lifestyle. This week I introduce you to the Bolero and Zouave jackets. A Dictionary of Costume and Fashion: Historic and Modern describes the Bolero jacket as a “short jacket no longer than normal waistline, with or without sleeves. Worn open in front over bodice or blouse. Spanish in origin.” In comparison, the Zouave jacket is described as a “woman’s short jacket with rounded front, made in imitation of [the] jacket of [the] Zouave uniform. Sometimes sleeveless.” The descriptions of the two types of jackets are quite similar. For this post it is not important to know the subtle differences between the two styles but rather that the style of jacket was popular during the Civil War years. One of the reasons behind the popularity was the use of a Zouave style jacket in many volunteer units. The French Zouaves were an elite military force during the nineteenth century. Because the Civil War was an overwhelming influence on the lives of all Americans (including women), ladies’ fashion adopted some military characteristics, including the use of a Zouave style jacket. While the construction of the garment could be quite simple, existing examples of these garments show extensive embroidery and trimmings. Many of the popular ladies’ magazines published fashion plates and patterns for Zouave jackets. Godey’s Lady’s magazine published many versions of the jacket, including this early one from 1859. Below are some plates and patterns from other periodicals of the day. The Library of Congress’ collection of Prints and Photographs has many examples of Zouave jackets, including these two photographs from between 1860-1865. Costume historian and technician, Quinn M. Burgess, wrote an excellent piece on her website about the Bolero and Zouave jackets. Brief article from the Smithsonian on the influence of the Zouave on Union and Confederate uniforms. The Newberry Library and the Terra Foundation have an online exhibit “Home Front: Daily Life in the Civil War North.” They briefly discuss the Zouave soldiers in the Civil War and their influence on fashion. While searching for additional images, I came across an online exhibit from the University of Maryland titled “Woman on the Border: Maryland Perspectives of the Civil War.“ Reddish brown silk dress, American, 1860-1865. Metropolitan Museum of Art. Accession no: C.I.50.105.16a, b White with black embroidery promenade dress, American, 1862-1864. Metropolitan Museum of Art. Accession no: C.I.60.6.11a, b Yellow pattern silk dress with green trim, French, 1862. Metropolitan Museum of Art. Accession no: 1973.244.1a–c Thomas J. Watson Library, The Metropolitan Museum of Art, Women 1862, plates 92 Thomas J. Watson Library, The Metropolitan Museum of Art, Women 1863, plate 8 Unidentified woman, c1860-1863. Library of Congress Prints and Photographs Collection. Call number: LOT 6286, p. 29 Unidentified soldier with two women, c1861-1865. Library of Congress Prints and Photographs Collection. Call number: AMB/TIN no. 2703 Picken, Mary Brooks. A Dictionary of Costume and Fashion: Historic and Modern. Mineola, New York: Dover Publications, Inc. 1985. ©2015 Deborah Sweeney Post originally found: https://genealogylady.net/2015/09/06/fashion-moments-bolero-zouave-jackets/
Science is closer than ever to proving that animals are capable of consciously monitoring their behavior in a manner similar to humans, according to researchers from the RIKEN-MIT Center for Neural Circuit Genetics. Mysterious circular formations located off the coast of Denmark aren't the work of aliens so much as eelgrass plants growing amid highly toxic mud, according to a team of Danish researchers. Global health security may be improved by the United States teaming up with foreign nations, a report issued by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention states. The development of an ant colony's different castes is influenced by either novel or highly modified genes, evolutionary biologists at Johannes Gutenberg University Mainz (JGU) discovered in a recent study of gene expression. Massive galaxies that formed and stopped producing stars soon after the Big Bang were created by violent star formation triggered by the collision of galaxies, a new study published in the Astrophysical Journal argues. Neanderthals may have gone extinct thousands of years ago, but their genomic lineage lives on, particularly in skin and hair traits, a new study published in the journal Nature found. NASA has discovered a novel way to measure the melt and growth of ice using a new laser technology. That humans are not designed for spaceflight is a reality weighing heavy on NASA scientists working against the clock to put astronauts on Mars by the 2030s. The discovery that the Black Death and Justinian Plague were caused by different strains of the same pathogen suggests a new strain of plague could emerge again, researchers warn. Tuesday marks the 28th anniversary of the space shuttle Challenger tragedy, an event that resulted in the death of seven crew members and a 32-month hiatus in NASA's shuttle program. Fire was tamed as many as 300,000 years ago, according to the recent discovery of the earliest evidence of repeated fire burning in one place over a period of time. Cancer patients undergoing treatment gain key coping skills when they participate in music production, including writing lyrics and producing videos, according to a new study published in Cancer. Los Angeles is especially vulnerable to any major earthquake that may take place south of the city of almost 4 million, a new method of constructing virtual earthquakes determined. Ancient forests may have helped stabilize the Earth's carbon dioxide levels and, therefore, its climate, a new study published in Biogeosciences suggests.
The history of aviation in Texas is the story of industry innovation, record-setting achievements, gravity-defying feats and the soaring human spirit. Texas has been, and continues to be, a leader in manufacturing, hospitality, science exploration and scholarship, driving the global economy year after year with new research and billions of dollars in revenue. The year 2010 marks the centennial of flight in Texas. Since Frenchman Louis Paulhan's first flight in Texas on February 18, 1910, Texas has been on the leading edge of aviation. The first U.S. military flight was in March 1910 from Fort Sam Houston, beginning Texas's long tradition of military aviation. The first person to build and fly a plane in Texas was L.L. Walker Jr. in Houston, exemplifying the spirit that has driven the aviation industry in Texas ever since. Tango Alpha Charlie: Texas Aviation Celebration tells the story of Texas aviation -- past, present, and future -- in a special exhibition that will brag on the dynamic achievements of Texas aviators, designers, manufacturers, and services. Included in the exhibit are 5 large scale models of aircraft including an AT-6 Texan, B-24 Liberator, Southwest Airlines Lone Star One, Mooney Acclaim Type S, a Bell V-22 Osprey, and a 1/2 scale Vought F-4U-4 Corsair. Visitors can try their hand at flying a Curtiss Jenny, an AT-6 Texan, and a Bell XV-3 tiltrotor helicopter through interactive video simulators. There are over 120 objects in the exhibit spanning everything from Benjamin Foulois's logbook detailing his first military flights in 1910, flight suits worn by Howard Hughes and Katharine Hepburn in the 1930s, astronaut Ed White's helmet from Gemini 4, and Jeana Yeager's ponytail from when she cut her hair to reduce weight on the non-stop round-the-world flight of Voyager in 1986, to uniforms from various Texas based commercial airlines, and a non-ablative rocket engine that will change the future of space travel. With multimedia interactivity, artifacts, original research, and hands-on experiences for all ages, this exhibition will serve as the next great chapter in the already rich story of Texas aviation. The exhibition is organized by guest curator Barbara Ganson Ph.D., a professor of aviation history. Admission to the Museum's exhibits, including Tango Alpha Charlie: Texas Aviation Celebration (September 12, 2010 - January 9, 2011): $7 for adults, $6 for seniors/military/college students (with valid ID), $4 for youth ages 5-18, free for ages 4 and under. The Bob Bullock Texas State History Museum is located at 1800 N. Congress Avenue at the corner of Martin Luther King, Jr. Blvd. For more information, call (512) 936-4649.
© Photographed July 20, 2015 Erected 1990 by Delavan Historic Preservation Society Delavan, Walworth County, Wisconsin HISTORIC CIRCUS DISTRICT This area was a hub of circus activity during the 1847-1895 period when 26 circuses quartered in Delavan. The three-story brick building, 117 Park Place, 100 feet northeast of this site, was the Park Hotel, built in 1848, where many circus performers lodged. In 1874, balloonist Rodley A. Palmer, while making an ascension from this park, struck the cornice of the hotel, sustaining injuries that later caused his death. Famed magician-illusionist, Harry Houdini, as a 12-year old runaway, slept in the hotel's basement livery stable. The three-story building at 124 E. Walworth Avenue, 125 feet southeast of this monuyment, was quarters for the 1879 Dr. George Morrison Colesium Circus which featured Al and John Ringling as performers. Circus wagon and blacksmith shops were once located adjacent to the park. A watering trough at the east end of the park was utilized by various animals. The part was the assembly area for many circus parades held in the past. The giraffe on the monument is symbolic of the many circuses that once quartered in Delavan and nearly 150 members of the 19th century circus colony who are buried in Spring Grove and St. Andrew's Cemeteries. Delavan Historic Preservation Society The marker is located at Tower Park on westbound East Walworth Avenue / County Highway O / Wisconsin Highway 11, at its intersection with South 4th Street, Delavan, Wisconsin 53115. The marker is at the base of the giraffe. The marker and giraffe are visible at the base of the water tower, to the far left. The marker is located in historic downtown Delavan, Wisconsin.
Are you worried about a friend or a colleague? Do you think that your friend/colleague is feeling upset, stressed, anxious, depressed or has emotional or psychological symptoms? Has it been affecting their normal functioning for more than 4 weeks? Your friend might be distressed – a global term to cover all sorts of psychological problems, mental health problems and issues. Do any of the following behaviours describe someone you know? - Looks down and miserable - Tired, or sleepy - Change from their normal physical appearance - Overly sensitive and worried - Changes in mood - Seems different - Suppresses emotion - Change in sleeping habits, not being able to sleep or can’t wake up - Change in eating habits, less healthy patterns - Physical symptoms, e.g. Bowel upsets, feeling sick, shortness of breath, headaches, stomach pain, skin rash - Panic attacks - Change in their normal behaviour or habits - Lack of interest in things normally interested in - Not answering phone or responding to communication attempts - Not engaging much in conversation or discussion - Withdrawing from social activities - Hard excessive partying - Increasing use of alcohol and drugs, coffee, smoking - Skipping classes or a deterioration in grades - Self destructive, not caring about themselves or their safety - Not coping with studies - Not coping with normal life events
One of the biggest offenders in our diets is an abundance of added sugars. (Find out how much sugar is too much here.) But until an "added sugars" category makes its debut on the Nutrition Facts Panel (the FDA has started to explore the possibility with a consumer study), it's challenging to know just how much added sugar is lurking in your favorite packaged foods. And although more and more food companies are ditching high-fructose corn syrup, their products aren't necessarily sugar-free. In fact, they may contain just as much sugar as before, just in a different form. Here are 3 tips to sleuth out how much added sugar is in your food--as reported in EatingWell Magazine: 1. Read the Nutrition Facts Panel: Under a food label's "sugars" designation, both natural and added sugars are included. Natural sugars (such as lactose in milk and fructose in fruit) are not usually a problem because they come in small doses and are packed with other nutrients, which helps slow absorption. 2. Check the ingredient list: All of the following are aliases for added sugar. The higher up on the list they appear, the more sugar is in the product. Dextrose, fructose, honey, invert sugar, raw sugar, malt syrup, rice syrup, sucrose, xylose, molasses, corn sweetener, fruit juice concentrate, high-fructose corn syrup, brown sugar, corn syrup, glucose, lactose, maltose, sucrose, evaporated cane juice, agave nectar, cane crystals, cane sugar, crystalline fructose, barley malt, beet sugar, caramel. Don't Miss: Are Some Sugars Healthier Than Others? 3. Compare products: Determine how much unhealthful added sugar your product contains by comparing it to a comparable sugar-free product, such as strawberry yogurt to plain yogurt or canned peaches in syrup to canned peaches in juice. (Find out here which healthy-sounding foods aren't actually good for you.) Do you watch your added-sugar intake? By Brierley Wright, M.S., R.D. Brierley's interest in nutrition and food come together in her position as nutrition editor at EatingWell. Brierley holds a master's degree in Nutrition Communication from the Friedman School of Nutrition Science and Policy at Tufts University. A Registered Dietitian, she completed her undergraduate degree at the University of Vermont. Related Links from EatingWell:
The Center for Integrative Science Learning is about empowering tomorrow’s leaders in science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) disciplines. PBA students and faculty work closely with students at Conniston Community Middle School to help create fun and enlightening activities that can lead them on a fulfilling path toward careers in STEM-related fields. Part of the Center’s mission is to create classroom learning activities that can be incorporated into the students’ science and math curricula. Such hands-on activities are designed to be engaging and multi-disciplinary so the middle school students begin to understand the many ways different aspects of science and mathematics intersect. The Center initiated 16 multi-disciplinary lab modules in the pilot period alone, and has seen eight other modules developed and approved in collaboration with Conniston’s teachers. The Center’s team includes PBA faculty expert in: Students who take part in the Center’s offerings can deepen their learning experience through after-school clubs. The clubs help reinforce STEM concepts the students are learning, and are focused on various themes related to science including forensics, environmental conservation, acoustics and music. Students have gone on field trips to the Lake Worth/Snook Island restoration site, and along with Conniston’s Student Government Body, other clubs have been created including the Physics of Catapults Club and the Civic Engagement and the Advancement of Science Club. The Center provides professional development initiatives for science and math teachers as a way to ensure Conniston students are getting the most relevant and current instruction. The professional development takes part in two- and three-day sessions through the Center’s Professional Development Institute. Through school assemblies and community events, the Center helps to infuse enthusiasm and showcase students’ achievements. Multiple all-school assemblies at Conniston have been held focusing on the Center’s activities. And at the school’s annual FCAT Night, where parents also learned more about the Center’s activities and outcomes. PBA student volunteers serve over 500 meals to Conniston students and their parents. The Center’s programs are expected to reach all 1,100 Conniston Community Middle School students. Faculty will share the Center’s outcomes with Palm Beach County, and present findings in peer-reviewed journals and professional conferences to help create national best practices standards.
Hares and rabbits comprise the family Leporidae. Hares tend to be larger than rabbits, with longer ears and longer hind legs. They can run faster than rabbits. Some hares may be able to reach speeds of 45 miles per hour. While rabbits are social, hares are often solitary animals. Hares live in nests above the ground, while rabbits live in underground burrows. Hares are precocial - newborns are mobile at birth. Rabbits, on the other hand, are altricial. This means that newborns cannot move by themselves. A hare that is less than a year old is known as a leveret. The European Hare, also known as the brown hare, is native to temperate areas in Europe and western Asia. It has also been introduced to Australia, New Zealand and the Americas. It eats grasses and herbs in the summer and buds, bark and twigs in winter. It sometimes damages fruit trees. The European hare spends most of the day in a form, a hollowed out depression in the grass. It comes out to feed at sunset. The European hare is usually solitary but sometimes feeds in groups. During mating season in the spring, European hairs can be seen standing on their hind legs and boxing with one another (the origin of the phrase mad as a March hare). Female hares box male hares, fending off males that are too enthusiastic for their tastes.
Albuterol (Salbutamol Sulfate) What is Albuterol? Albuterol is an inhaled medication that is indicated for: - Treating bronchospasm - Preventing bronchospasm - Preventing exercise-induced bronchospasm - Treating wheezing and chest tightness in those with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) Albuterol is normally taken as one to two inhalations every four to six hours each day. If a patient is to take two puffs, they should wait one full minute in between puffs. Additionally, if they are using another inhaler, they should wait one minute before using the other inhaler. How does Albuterol Work? Albuterol has an effect on beta2-adrenergic receptors. Albuterol’s effect on these adrenoreceptors contributes to increased cyclic AMP levels, causing the bronchial smooth muscle to relax and the inhibition of mediator release. This relaxes the muscles in the walls of the lung, opening the airways. This mechanism, therefore, alleviates wheezing, cough, and chest tightness allowing the individual to breathe easier. Side effects of Albuterol include: - Nausea and vomiting - Anxiety or irritability - Hyperactivity in children - Irritated or dry throat Warnings & Precautions Albuterol can cause paradoxical bronchospasm like other inhaled medications. This event can be life-threatening. If this occurs, stop Albuterol right away and start a different therapy. Deterioration of Asthma A patient’s asthma may deteriorate for hours or days after administration. If an individual requires more Albuterol doses, this may indicate that their asthma is becoming destabilized. The patient may need to be reevaluated and require a different treatment regimen. Specifically, providers should consider anti-inflammatory treatment with something like corticosteroids. Beta-adrenergic agonist bronchodilators, such as Albuterol, alone may not provide enough asthma relief. If this is the case, providers should consider using adjunct anti-inflammatory agents such as corticosteroids. Beta2-adrenergic agonists can cause certain cardiovascular effects. These effects can include changes to blood pressure or pulse rate. If this happens, providers should stop therapy with Albuterol. Beta-agonists have also demonstrated electrocardiogram (ECG) alterations. Therefore, Albuterol and other sympathomimetic agents should be used with caution in those that have cardiovascular disorders. In particular, those with cardiac arrhythmias, hypertension, and coronary insufficiency should use caution. Beta-agonists, such as Albuterol, can cause hypokalemia. These changes can lead to cardiovascular events. However, decreases in potassium levels are usually transient and do not necessitate supplementation. Albuterol has been shown to cause hypersensitivity events such as rash, angioedema, hypotension, and bronchospasm. Therapy with sympathomimetic amines such as Albuterol should be monitored in those with certain conditions. These conditions include those with diabetes mellitus, convulsive disorders, and hyperthyroidism. Additionally, large doses of albuterol have been shown to exacerbate diabetes mellitus and ketoacidosis. Inhaled sympathomimetic drugs have been shown to cause death when used at doses that exceed what is recommended. The mechanism causing this is unknown. However, cardiac arrest and hypoxia are potential sources. Beta-adrenergic Receptor Blocking Agents Beta-blockers stop beta-agonist effects on the pulmonary system. Additionally, they may cause serious bronchospasm in those with asthma. Any patient with asthma should avoid beta-blockers. If necessary, providers can consider cardio-selective beta-blockers but should still use caution. Beta-agonists, such as salmeterol, can worsen hypokalemia and/or ECG changes caused by non-potassium-sparing diuretics like thiazide or loop diuretics. Providers should use caution when prescribing Albuterol in patients on these types of diuretics. Tricyclic Antidepressants (TCAs) and Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) Providers should use caution when prescribing Albuterol with MAOIs or TCAs. Salbutamol’s effect on the vascular system can be increased by these types of medications. In one study, serum digoxin levels decreased after oral and intravenous administration with salbutamol. Providers, therefore, should carefully monitor serum digoxin levels in those that are taking digoxin concomitantly with albuterol. Frequently Asked Questions
In 1995, World Bank Vice President Ismail Serageldin said, "the wars of the next century will be fought over water" [source: Village Voice]. The last war fought over water was 4,500 years ago in Mesopotamia , but other water conflicts have broken out since [source: Leslie]. The bloody conflict in Darfur, Sudan, that began in 2003 and killed as many as 400,000 Africans, started, in part, over access to a diminishing water supply [source: The Guardian]. The Darfur conflict began locally and grew to encompass a region. In other regions, water may also strain relations between neighboring countries. Water is spread across geographic boundaries, which makes it difficult to determine ownership. Because nations may share a common water supply, animosity can grow over access to it, especially where it is perceived by one group that another is demanding more from the supply. This phenomenon is not limited to regions where many countries are situated near one another, but in regions of the United States as well. In October 2007, a 20-year-old dispute over water rights -- which some call a water war -- between the states of Alabama, Florida and Georgia flared up. When the available water that supplies Atlanta's 4.5 million residents, as well as parts of Alabama and Florida, began to diminish due to a severe drought, tensions flared over the rights to the water supply. While the states' National Guards didn't confront each other, the governors engaged in a publicity war, exchanging words instead of bullets. Water is inequitably dispersed on a global level. While developing nations scramble to provide their populations with water, they usually end up paying more for it, since they must take greater measures to get it. Developed countries can afford infrastructure that can deliver water cheaply and effectively to residents. This makes water seem cheaper and less valuable to the people who live there. While it takes about 12 gallons per day to sustain a human (this figure takes into account all uses for water, like drinking, sanitation and food production), the average American uses about 158 gallons [source: U.S. News and World Report]. This illuminates a global divide over water. This divide could also fuel conflict and animosity between the water-haves and the water-have-nots in the future. While access to safe water is being seen increasingly as a human right, water itself is becoming a luxury item. For example, a diet rich in meat is associated with wealth, since meat is more expensive than grain. And while it takes about 1,000 tons of water to grow one ton of grain, it takes 15 times that amount of water to grow one ton of beef [source: Leslie]. As water grows in value, how will developed nations be perceived by those nations with little or no access to water? It's clear that as water becomes increasingly valuable, the risk of future conflicts over water supply increases. But can we overcome our own future? Is it inevitable that plague, famine and war due to a lack of water will define 21st-century history? Read the next page to find out about possible hope for the future.
Bleeding from the nose, referred to as epistaxis by doctors, is a rather common phenomenon. This flows from the fact that the nose has a very good blood supply, but cannot be helped much by the nose's prominent position or the fact that many individuals take it upon themselves to manually excavate it. Most people know where the nose is, but it's the insides that count when talking about nose bleeds. Branches of both the internal and external carotid arteries supply the nose. An important landmark is Little's area, also known as Keisselbach's plexus, where the ends of several of the arteries supplying the nose meet and anastomose1. Little's area is a common site for bleeds, being situated towards the front of each nostril on the nasal septum2. Bleeding from the lateral walls occurs less often but is trickier to control, as are nose bleeds in elderly individuals. While nosebleeds can occur spontaneously, they are often due to damage to the vessels through trauma such as vigorous and frequent removal of dried mucus from inside the nostrils3 or a blow to the face4. High blood pressure, anti-clotting agents and bleeding disorders increase the risk of nasal bleeding, as do nasal allergies such as hay fever. Other factors affecting the likelihood of bleeding include the humidity, as dry air5 tends to cause the nostrils to become inflamed. ... Or, 'It's ruining my shirt! How do I make it stop?!'6 1. Don't panic. 2. Remove patient to an appropriate environment. If your nose starts to bleed, let someone else know about it even if you intend to treat it yourself. The first step is to remove the bleeder to a bathroom or similar place with a good supply of water and paper towels; note though that if the bleed is torrential or persists for more than 15 minutes then medical attention should be sought. Steps should be taken to protect clothing if necessary. 3. Apply pressure over the lower part of the nose for 10 minutes. Apply steady pressure with a finger and thumb across the fleshy part of both nostrils just below the bone for around 10 minutes. Squeezing the nose in this manner will stop most bleeds originating from Little's area. Note that squeezing over the bony upper part of the nose will not stop the bleeding. In the meantime, the bleeder should breathe through their mouth, try not to swallow7, and lean forward to prevent the blood from running back through the nose and into their airway. If necessary, use a tissue or cotton wool ball in the entrance of the nostril, but do not be tempted to place anything any further inside the nostril. An ice pack wrapped in a towel may be temporarily applied to the bridge of the nose but should not replace pinching the nose. 4. If bleeding persists for more than 15 minutes, seek urgent medical attention. If the bleeding stops, the patient should remain still for a short while and avoid any actions that might restart the bleeding. Nose blowing and picking should be avoided for the rest of the day. After a severe nose bleed it is best to avoid nose blowing and picking, smoking, strenuous activities, very hot drinks, trauma to the nose and sneezing through the nose where possible for the next seven days. If the site of bleeding is visible, the bleed may be controlled by cauterising the offending blood vessel with a silver nitrate stick, having first applied a plug of dressing soaked in local anaesthetic8 and a vasoconstrictant9 for a few moments. This can also be done after the bleed has stopped if it is felt that the point may re-bleed. Nasal tampons exist10 for packing the nose should the bleed continue, and are used to effectively apply pressure to the bleeding point. Specially-designed balloons can also be inserted and inflated inside the nose, with different varieties being used depending on whether the site of the bleed is at the front or the back of the nose. Patients with moderate to severe bleeds are admitted to hospital for observation for at least 12 hours, with nasal packs usually staying in for 24-48 hours. Intravenous fluids or blood may be needed depending on the amount of blood lost. If bleeding persists despite medical treatment, surgery may be required to electrically cauterise the source or tie off the artery supplying the bleed. Many other treatments for nosebleeds have been suggested in the past, ranging from placing blotting paper under the tongue or drinking water with pepper in it, to sniffing cobwebs or placing a key down the back of the neck. One old 'cure' actually involves tying a cord around the sufferers neck - presumably this works by stopping the flow of blood to their head, and is thus inadvisable to say the least. Repeated attacks most often occur in children (little bleeders), where the cause may well be excessive nose-picking. The simple approach of stopping the picking may be enough, but in those with spontaneous bleeds a small amount of petroleum jelly can be used to prevent the nose from drying out, becoming inflamed and bleeding. If bleeding still continues to occur, it's a good idea to go and see your doctor.
Throughout the world, humans cultivate cannabis and hemp – and in many cases, they have done so for hundreds or even thousands of years. Humans live in a range of habitats, and as such, we need crops that can grow in a wide variety of different environmental conditions. Cannabis is an incredibly useful crop for humans, and a big part of that usefulness is its ability to adapt to an incredible variety of different environmental conditions, from near-Arctic cold, through the parched deserts, to the sweltering tropics. Over centuries, people working in diverse conditions have selected, cultivated and nurtured cannabis plants that are most fit for the local environment – and during this time, local varieties of cannabis, with particular characteristics, usage and cannabinoid profile, have become established. What Exactly Is A Landrace? Landrace crop varieties are those that have adapted over time to local environmental conditions, in isolation from other populations of the same species, to a point where they have developed a degree of inbreeding – and typically, a range of unique characteristics. This process is generally assisted by some selective breeding and management by humans – but unlike cultivars, landraces are generally more diverse and variable in their expression of traits, and a lot more is left up to natural selection… The post How Landrace Cannabis Varieties are Disappearing from the Planet appeared first on Sensi Seeds Blog.
Lubumbashi International Airport is an airport in Lubumbashi, Democratic Republic of the Congo (IATA: FBM, ICAO: FZQA). Lubumbashi International Airport was founded in colonial times as the Elisabethville Airport. It was also known as Luano airport. This airport played a high-profile role during the Katanga war. After it was seized by the United Nations Force in the Congo (ONUC) troops, the airport was used as a base against the secessionist government. Airlines and destinations ||This section is empty. You can help by adding to it. (October 2014) Accidents and incidents - In December 2001, Air Katanga Douglas C-53-DO ZS-OJD was written off in a landing accident at Lubumbashi International Airport after a delivery flight that originated in South Africa. - September 15, 1996, Air Katanga Douglas DC-4-1009 OO-ADN. <ref name= GAD This article incorporates public domain material from websites or documents of the Air Force Historical Research Agency.
Cypress Fairbanks Medical Center Hospital wants to help women become more aware of their health and give them the tools needed to succeed. Nearly 12,000 women in the United States learn they have cervical cancer each year. But cervical cancer is preventable and you can help protect yourself, or your daughter, from developing this serious form of cancer. The Link Between HPV and Cervical Cancer The cervix is the lower, narrow part of the uterus. Cancer of the cervix occurs when cells begin to grow abnormally, dividing at a faster than normal rate. “Most cases of cervical cancer are found in women younger than age 50, but the disease rarely occurs in those younger than age 20,” says Stephanie Smith-Sham, MD, OB/GYN on the medical staff at Cy-Fair Hospital. The human papillomavirus (HPV) causes most cases of cervical cancer. Both men and women can unknowingly have HPV and pass it to another person. “You can reduce the risk of developing cervical cancer by preventing HPV infection and having routine Pap tests,” suggests Dr. Smith-Sham. “The Pap test or Pap smear checks for changes in the cells of the cervix. Samples of the cells from inside and outside of the cervix are taken during a pelvic exam by your doctor or nurse,” explains Dr. Smith-Sham. “This test should be done regularly as suggested by your doctor to help you and your health care provider stay proactive in addressing any health concerns that may develop, such as cervical cancer.” A vaccine has been developed to prevent spread of the HPV virus, and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommends the vaccine for females through age 26. The vaccine must be given in three doses over a six-month period. The Importance of Prevention Despite increased screening, the American Cancer Society still estimates over 4,000 women will die from cervical cancer this year. “You can help your daughter take action to prevent cervical cancer through vaccination or to receive treatment if it is detected early through regular screening,” adds Dr. Smith-Sham. “Cervical cancer is a difficult condition to live through, but resources and services are available to help you better understand the risk factors and options for prevention.” Talk to the Doctor about Your Concerns Want to know more about HPV and cervical cancer? Or interested in learning about the importance of regular screening to help foster good health habits in your daughter at an early age? Join Cy-Fair Hospital for a mother and daughter seminar on Saturday, June 26 at 9 a.m. in the Professional Building I Classrooms (11302 Fallbrook Drive). The seminar will include an open discussion designed to help learn what you need to know to protect your daughter from cervical cancer. Call 800-681-2733 to register for this informative seminar. Complimentary breakfast and refreshments will be provided. Space is limited, so call to reserve your spot today.
Syringomyelia is damage to the spinal cord due to the formation of a fluid-filled area within the cord. The fluid buildup seen in syringomyelia may be a result of spinal cord trauma, tumors of the spinal cord, or birth defects (specifically, "chiari malformation," in which part of the brain pushes down onto the spinal cord at the base of the skull). The fluid-filled cavity usually begins in the neck area. It expands slowly, putting pressure on the spinal cord and slowly causing damage. There may be no symptoms, or symptoms may include: Additional symptoms that may be associated with this disease: A neurologic examination may show loss of sensation or movement caused by compression of the spinal cord. An MRI of the spine confirms syringomyelia and determines the exact location and extent. Often, an MRI of the head will be done to look for associated conditions including hydrocephalus (water on the brain). Rarely, an spinal CT with myelogram may be done. The goals of treatment are to stop the spinal cord damage from getting worse and to maximize functioning. Surgery to relieve pressure in the spinal cord may be appropriate. Physical therapy may be needed to maximize muscular function. It may be necessary to drain the fluid build up. See: Ventriculoperitoneal shunting Untreated, the disorder gets worse very slowly, but it eventually causes severe disability. Surgical decompression usually stops the progression of the disorder, with about 50% of people showing significant improvement in neurologic function after surgical decompression. Without treatment, the condition will lead to: Possible complications of surgery include: Call your health care provider if you have symptoms of syringomyelia. There is no known prevention, other than avoiding trauma to the spinal cord. Prompt treatment reduces progression of the disorder.
In oral tissues, e-cig users were found to develop some of the same cancer-related molecular changes as cigarette smokers, stated new study. If you think vaping is benign, think again. The research, published this week in the International Journal of Molecular Sciences, comes amid a mushrooming e-cig market and mounting public health worries. On a positive note, recent research found vaping is almost twice as effective as other nicotine replacement therapies in helping smokers quit. "The existing data show that e-cig vapor is not merely 'water vapor' as some people believe," said Ahmad Besaratinia, an associate professor at Keck School of Medicine of USC and the study's senior author. "Although the concentrations of most carcinogenic compounds in e-cig products are much lower than those in cigarette smoke, there is no safe level of exposure to carcinogens." Besaratinia emphasized that the molecular changes seen in the study aren't cancer, or even pre-cancer, but rather an early warning of a process that could potentially lead to cancer if unchecked. The researchers looked at gene expression in oral cells collected from 42 e-cig users, 24 cigarette smokers and 27 people who didn't smoke or vape. Gene expression is the process by which instructions in our DNA are converted into a functional product, such as a protein. Certain alterations in gene expression can lead to cancer. They focused on oral epithelial cells, which line the mouth, because over 90 percent of smoking-related cancers originate in epithelial tissue, and oral cancer is associated with tobacco use. Both smokers and vapers showed abnormal expression, or deregulation, in a large number of genes linked to cancer development. Twenty-six percent of the deregulated genes in e-cig users were identical to those found in smokers. Some deregulated genes found in e-cig users, but not in smokers, are nevertheless implicated in lung cancer, esophageal cancer, bladder cancer, ovarian cancer and leukemia. Besaratinia and his team plan to replicate his findings in a larger group of subjects and explore the mechanisms that cause gene deregulation. He's also launching another experiment in which smokers switch to e-cigs; he wants to see whether any changes in gene regulation occur after the switch. "For the most part, the participants are as curious as we are to know whether these products are safe," he said.
Climate/Environment, Health and Improved Nutrition Objectives : Recent research indicates that climate-friendly diets are healthier, but much of this evidence is based on aggregate consumption data or on individuals' dietary intake data from just one observation day. Analysis of individuals' self-selected diets is important for applying dietary guidance, but usual intake over time is needed to better assess relationships with human health and environmental outcomes. To address this gap, we developed a method to estimate the association of dietary carbon footprints with nutritional quality for usual intake based on multiple observation days. Methods : Based on an exhaustive review of the sustainability science literature, we developed a database of Food Impacts on the Environment for Linking to Diets (dataFIELD), which has greenhouse gas emissions (GHGE) of 332 food commodities. We linked dataFIELD to the dietary recall data for each of two days in the 2005-2010 National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES), and calculated GHGE per day for each individual. Finally, we adapted the multi-variate Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) simulation procedure, originally developed by the National Cancer Institute to estimate the joint usual intake distributions of multiple dietary components. We included GHGE/1000 kcal along with the 12 dietary components in the Healthy Eating Index (e.g. total fruit intake/1000 kcal, sodium/1000 kcal, etc). Our MCMC model accounts for episodic consumption of foods (such as fish) and allows for inclusion of covariates, such as age, sex, or race-ethnicity to improve estimates. We demonstrate the method using two days of dietary intake for all adults with reliable data (n=16,800). Previous results by our team using one-day data indicate a significant (P < 0.05) inverse relationship between Healthy Eating Index scores and GHGE. Analyses with this new method provide similar results. Conclusions : This study demonstrates a method to estimate the relationships between healthfulness and carbon footprints for usual dietary intake. This is important because it allows for examination of diet quality and sustainability indicators of real, self-selected diets over time. These methods can be used to identify healthy, environmentally beneficial dietary changes for promotion in nutrition education. Funding Sources : Wellcome Trust.
Maple Leaf Publishing (Kenny King) has two books that I use a lot in my literate (post-phonics) kids classes: Short Stories 1 and Everyday Verbs. Approximately the first third of each of these books is devoted to present tense forms; the second third uses present progressive; the last third has past tense. Because of this, the two books are well suited to be used in conjunction with each other. (I should note that while the grammar used in the two books aligns well, the verbs covered in the two books do not.) I have developed a twelve-step guide for myself to get optimal benefit from the Short Stories books. For a PDF of the guide, click here: Twelve Steps. Following these twelve steps ensures that the students will develop their listening, reading, speaking and writing skills as well as vocabulary and grammar. (Note: Step 10 refers to cloze exercises. These are fill-in-the-blank exercises I have made for myself. It’s easy to make your own if you want to.) For each class, I print out a copy of a checklist. (Link to checklist PDF: checklist.) This checklist makes it easy for me to keep track of which of the twelve steps I have done with a class for each story. The “Everyday Verbs” book is more explicit instruction and practice in grammar. I usually alternate between this and the “Short Stories 1” book (above). For example, after completing story 1 in the Short Stories book, we do pages 2 and 3 from the Everyday Verbs book. (If that is confusing, just look at the checklist. I think it will make sense then.) So the checklist is a guide to coordinating the use of the two books as well as a way to keep track of which of the twelve steps a class has done in the story books. Feel free to contact me if you have any questions about any of this!
Honor founders on Independence Day As we celebrate Independence Day, let us not forget to honor the brave founders who extricated us from the arrogance of English kings and fashioned one united people brought here from multitudes of kindred souls and tongues. They fashioned a nation of governance by the people that fought for ending slavery, rallied for woman's vote, and created a liberty that promises everyone opportunity beyond imagination. Every generation through sweat and blood has forged a brighter future for subsequent generations. Mothers and fathers have struggled to ensure better opportunities for their children—and it worked—but the challenge is ever with us. We still need the God of all religions to help us avoid violence, and discord, and confusion, and pride, and, yes, arrogance—for without His help, the tribulations of history will repeat itself.
Sociodemographic characteristics, travel motivation and satisfaction have long been suggested to be the predictors of travel behavior and intention of tourists. Meanwhile, most studies focus on tourists from Western countries and researches on Chinese tourist is largely inadequate. Questionnaire surveys were conducted in the well-known Nanling National Forest Park and Dinghushan National Nature Reserve in South China to investigate the role of Chinese tourists’ sociodemographic characteristics in their travel motivation and satisfaction. Several important findings have been resulted: 1) Tourists’ satisfaction on the management and the educational value of the forest protected areas in South China was negatively correlated to their level of education; 2) The motivation of relaxation and nature exploration was positively correlated to age; 3) Motivation in terms of social influence was negatively correlated to education level. Various Chinese cultures in relationship with sociodemographic characteristics were suggested to be the main influence that shape the motivation and behavior of tourist. These cultural differences have marked the discrepancy between Chinese and Western tourists, showing that traditional studies conducted in Western society may not have direct implications on Chinese tourists. The findings of our study provide clues for the management of nature-based destinations to accommodate the escalating number of Chinese tourists. Copyright © 2018 The International Conference on Sustainable Tourism and Innovation. |Publication status||Published - May 2018| CitationMa, A. T. H., & Cheung, L. T. O. (2018, May). The role of sociodemographic characteristics in the travel motivation and satisfaction of tourists in forest protected areas in South China. Paper presented at The 2018 International Conference on Sustainable Tourism: Sustainable Tourism and Innovation, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, China. - Protected area - South China - Travel motivation
In a large school gymnasium in Rochester, NY, a group of adults are giggling and running around, playing a game called ‘Watch Your Back Tag’. It’s a game where everyone’s ‘it’ and you re-join the game when the person who originally tagged you is tagged themselves. These adults are employees of the Rochester City School District. They are engaging in playful, professional development training designed to help schools and recreational organizations create and maintain a great recess and play environment. They are being led by a trainer from Playworks, a national nonprofit, which provides services ranging from on-site coaches to professional training for school staff to teach and model sustainable recess programs. The Greater Rochester Health Foundation (GRHF) and other local organizations have partnered to increase physical activity and improve nutrition in schools, home, and community. The collaboration was born out of a GRHF-funded initiative which included nine Rochester City schools, several before- and after-school programs, local recreational organizations, and summer camps. Professional development trainers are helping administrators promote healthy play, fight childhood obesity and, according to senior program officer of GRHF Heidi Burke, they are seeing tremendous results. “Sixty-five percent of students are now getting moderate to vigorous physical activity during daily recess and I think much of that has to do with the fact that we implemented strategies provided by organizations such as Playworks,” Burke said. “We are working with schools that have not had recess in years, and teachers, as well as those administering recess, are nervous about it and are not sure of their skills.” Roughly one in three of Rochester City schools were previously offering recess; most of them not daily. GRHF worked with Healthi Kids, a community-based grassroots coalition that encourages play every day, to rewrite the district’s wellness policy to ensure that every child receives 20 minutes of recess daily. In a city where the child overweight and obesity rate is 38 percent, principals like Camaron Clyburn of Dr. Walter Cooper Academy School #10 called on Playworks to teach them how to use recess to promote healthy living and bring some fun to the grind of long school days. “One of our main challenges was simply being allowed to have the students be active in the first place,” Clyburn said. “They’re in school for six and a half hours and so, although they have physical education classes twice a week, we found that they still needed some time to get their wiggles out.” Students are not the only ones benefiting from active recesses, according to Clyburn. Teachers and administrators also seem to enjoy the opportunity to get their wiggles out for the day. “What Playworks provided us with was professional development for our staff,” she said. “They give you a lot of games that are really easy and fun for students and adults. Everyone, from students to teachers, needs a brain break, and they have has empowered us to make the most of our recess time.” Other administrators, including Theodora Waters, an assistant principal at John J Audubon school #33, said Playworks helped reduce the crucial transition times between the end of recess and beginning of class time. “Time is of the essence,” Waters said. “Students basically have a set lunch time with recess connected to their lunch time. The coaches go into the cafeteria, line the students up quickly, and bring them out quickly. Now the students know that they have dedicated time to play games, make new friends and practice leadership on the playground before starting their afternoon instruction. That’s a direct result of working with Playworks.” Playworks tailors their workshops, games and playground activities to the communities in which they work. According to Burke, the personal attention that the team gave to Rochester schools and youth organizations is indicative of their work beyond the playground. “The one thing that has impressed me the most with our relationship is that it’s not a one-size-fits-all scenario. We appreciated a partner that would go back to the drawing board and talk to their trainers to pull something together that would work for our community. The ability to customize has assisted us in creating greater impact,” Burke said. While the proof is in the numbers, the real impact Playworks has had on the Rochester community, according to Healthi Kids parent engagement coordinator Erick Stephens, is seen on the smiling faces of the kids during recess. “Playworks is about children being active, parents being active, and schools making choices to promote physical activity,” Stephens said. “I think one of the biggest barriers in implementing recess was that we’ve gone so long without recess. So what they do is train teachers who never knew recess to see the importance of recess. They make the connection between social-emotional learning and conflict resolution skills that are developed through active play.” Rochester administrators also learned that the power of play extends far beyond the jungle gym, according to Stephens. He said that the trainers inspired everyone who participated in their workshops, from teachers to recess supervisors to lunch aides, to all take on an active role as teachers in the lives of children. “I think my favorite story that came out of the workshops was listening to the lunch aides, who are often the lowest paid workers with the least amount of benefits. They learned that they are actually teachers too and that they matter. No one had ever told them that before,” Stephens said. “Playworks empowered them to look at their jobs from a different perspective, and for them to say, ‘Yeah I do matter, I do make a difference in the lives of these children.’” As of 2016, Playworks has trained over 400 adults and 5,000 children in Rochester City, creating and maintaining robust outdoor recess programs. They also aim to expand their partnership with the city, and Rochester City School District has asked Playworks to help them maintain a safe and healthy indoor recess during their cold winters and to expand their training within the classroom setting.
The Scriptures are entirely about “a” people – that there are only two peoples in the world, gentiles and Hebrews. The “Scriptures” is the story about the Hebrew people. YHWH Elohim, the Creator, commanded Abraham to leave his home and go to a place where YHWH would show him. When he arrived YHWH made HIS covenant with him forever. HE gave them a land that HE called the Promised Land. Later Abraham was given a son of “promise.” His name was Isaac. Even later, he had a son named Yaakov (changed to Israel) to which the original covenant was passed to him, forever. Even later when the Israelites were enslaved in Egypt, a son was born who would lead the people out, and into the Promised Land. When HE led them to Mount Sinai, HE gave them “instructions” to live by which HE called Torah. In fact the word for instruction in Hebrew is Torah.” I might add; more than the Hebrews came out of Egypt, also thousands of gentiles who had obeyed YHWH’s instruction for the Passover. HE gave them the same heritage of those born in the “Land” and HIS same Torah applied to them. HE adopted them into HIS family - the Hebrews! HE also declares that “anyone” who will turn his heart toward Israel will be grafted into HIS family, and they too become as “born in the Land.” This people were destined to be Messiah’s bride for whom HE would return for. This is what we so anxiously await… The following paragraphs describe events in our history. There is one Creator, YHWH, (HIS real name), is the Creator of the heavens and the earth, and that without HIM nothing was made. That HE, YHWH is the Torah that lives forever. HIS Son YaShua was with HIM from the beginning and HE and YHWH are One. YaShua would later take on a fleshly form and offer Himself as payment for the sins of the world – the final sacrifice. As for us, the people Israel, we broke HIS covenants but those who repented were forgiven and their relationship restored with YHWH. John wrote that Messiah, (YaShua, yah-shooah, HIS real name), has come as the Living Torah - John 1:1 “in the beginning was the living Torah and the living Torah was with YHWH, and the living Torah was YHWH.” 2 The same was in the beginning with YHWH. That, YaShua came to us and said; Matthew 5:17-19, 17 think not that I am come to weaken, or destroy the Torah, or the prophets: I have not come to weaken, or destroy, but to completely reveal it in its intended fullness. 18 For truly I say to you, until the current heaven and earth pass away, not one yud, or one nekudah shall by any means pass from the Torah, until all be fulfilled. 19 Whoever therefore shall break, or weaken one of the least Torah commandments, and shall teach men so, he will be referred to as the least in the Kingdom of Heaven: but whoever shall do and teach the commands, the same will be called great in the kingdom of heaven. HE stripped away and exposed the Pharisees' “adding-to, and taking-away” of the Scriptures which YHWH strictly forbids. By their adding to and taking away, made YHWH’s Commandments of no effect, and this is what they taught in the Temple. So men obeyed "man's laws" instead of Torah. YaShua taught true Torah, not the “leaven” as the Pharisees taught. HE exposed their sins publicly, which infuriated the Pharisees who sought to kill HIM. By getting the Roman officials involved, they held a mock trial for YaShua and succeeded in putting HIM to death. His death fulfilled the prophecy of Torah and the prophets. HE was crucified, died and was buried (literally 3 days and 3 nights), as the sign of Yonah was three days and three nights in the belly of the fish. HE was resurrected on the Sabbath because HE is the Creator of the Sabbath, and has ascended to the Father where HE awaits HIS return. By HIS sacrifice we are forgiven the sin of Adam that we inherited, too we are forgiven for breaking HIS Torah commands, or, the death penalty we were to receive for doing so. That the Scriptures are accurate, inspired, and valid, including ALL the covenants which YHWH our Elohim made with our forefathers, from Adam, Noah, Abraham, Yitzchak, (Isaac) and Yaakov,(Jacob), and these are the forefathers of all believers in Messiah. We are commanded to use the “real” names of the Father and HIS Son, once we learn them, not ever using the counterfeit ones that we inherited. This command applies to the Jews who use the words; Ha Shem, or, (the name). The Roman Emperor Constantine hated the Jews, and was not a believer in Messiah as is taught by some, but was a sun-god worshipper until his death. He replaced the Feasts of YHWH with pagan observances christmas and easter, in which there is nothing holy, but was idol worship directly from Babylon. These were the yearly observances the Romans used to worship their pagan idols. The word "christo" is Greek, a name they called all their deities. The word “christ” is from “christeanus” from Greek idolatry. The Torah breaking Jews compiled a book they called the Talmud, (a book meant to interpret Torah, written by the Pharisees) and taught in Synagogues as Torah. There is no room for it in a believer’s life, only true Torah. YaShua Messiah was born the first day of Sukkoth, the Fall Feast of YHWH - in Beit Lechem ( Bethlehem; House of Bread), not on december 25th. At Passover HE offered Himself as THE Passover Lamb, the Final Sacrifice for our sins. Commandments contained in Torah are still valid today and must be kept as commanded from Creation, throughout our generations; not for Salvation but so that we will know HIM intimately. 1John 2:4: “any man who says he knows YHWH and doesn’t keep HIS commandments is a liar and Torah is not in him.” The commandment of the Seventh Day, or, Sabbath (Shabbat sha-baat means REST), was the only day that YHWH named, the other days are numbered, and the true Sabbath is saturday, after the pagan god saturn. The moon’s phases regulate the beginning of months. The beginnings of years are established by the sighting the first sliver of a new moon, and, the barley crop being mature, if the barley isn’t ripe then the next new moon will determine the year’s beginning. Days begin and end at sun-down, whenever the sun goes down! In 1999 the Hebrew calendar, astronomically and agriculturally correct, was re-established, restoring HIS reckoning of time. We believe that all prophecies will be fulfilled at their appointed times, no sooner, no later, as Scripture states. An event known as the “rapture” will come at HIS appointed time and not in secret. A Scripture reference to the verse; “that no one knows the day or hour” when HE will return”, concerns the times of the new moon, and or the ripening barley – thus, “only MY Father knows hour or day”. Some barley harvests are later, but we still have a new moon, if the barley is not ripened, Scriptures directs us to wait till the next new moon, adding a 13th month. Until both agree the new moon and ripening of the barley, we cannot start a new year, so calendars cannot be made years in advance, we must wait on the moon and the barley! All Holy events are set apart and made Holy by YHWH, not man, and are not “Jewish” things, are YHWH’s things! The Feasts of YHWH, have never been annulled, changed, rescheduled, or altered in any way – and never will, and HE commands us to keep them forever. HE is the same yesterday, today and forever. We are the "last" generation; the fulfilling of the prophecy of Isaiah, "when Israel was restored as a nation", marked the beginning of the last generation and we will not pass away until all things written in the Scriptures will be fulfilled. And the day when we will be “changed” and will have incorruptible bodies to dwell with Messiah forever, will come at its appointed time, not at some random moment or in secret. In: 1Thesalonians 4:17, 2Theselonians 2:2, and 1Corinthians 15:51, that this "rapture" occurs after the "Last Shofar", (the seven shofars, referred to in Revelations). Torah is the “shadow” picture of good things to come, as Paul wrote. The last generation will be tribulated and proven true and then be gathered in an Exodus out of the world. May HE be glorified, honored and praised forever and ever,Amein!
A publication of the Archaeological Institute of America A newly discovered Minoan palace has yielded the oldest well-dated fresco fragment ever found in Crete. Excavating 20 miles south of Heraklion, George Rethemiotakis of the Heraklion Museum found the fragment of a wall painting depicting a rocky landscape and a wood construction, possibly a shrine. It dates to the seventeenth century B.C. The central court of the palace measures 52 by 105 feet, the fourth largest in Crete after those at the famous palaces of Knossos, Mallia, and Phaistos. The 53,000-square-foot palace was built between 1700 and 1650 B.C., destroyed by fire, reconstructed ca. 1600, and destroyed again, perhaps by an earthquake, in 1500. Reports of looting led Rethemiotakis and a salvage team to the site in the winter of 1991-92, when he discovered the central court and "realized it was something big." When he returned to conduct systematic excavations in 1995, he uncovered two halls in the palace's east wing that may have served political or religious functions. The larger of the two halls, measuring 21 by 21 feet, contained a large, square hearth between four pillars, a unique feature in Minoan palaces. Rethemiotakis believes the smaller hall, including a central column surrounded by benches, was used as a dining area. The other half of the east wing included storerooms which, in typical Minoan fashion, housed pithoi (storage jars), and a large kitchen containing abundant kitchen ware. The palace's west wing had been destroyed by plowing, but the discovery of tools and stone implements indicates that it may have been used for craft production. Rethemiotakis has so far only uncovered the walls of the north wing and a residential area with an impressive view of the court's facade. The fresco fragment, which bears an image of a rocky landscape, was found in debris of the palace's first phase, dating to the seventeenth century B.C. Fine ceramics transported from Knossos are evidence of a substantial reoccupation of the western part of the site by elite classes after 1500. The Greek state is expropriating the site from a farmer and it will eventually be developed as an archaeological park; the dig has received financial support from the Institute for Aegean Prehistory. Meanwhile, the Cretan city of Chania, known for its picturesque Venetian fortifications, is also becoming notable for its Minoan ruins. Excavations last spring on Daskaloyanni Street revealed a substantial Minoan settlement dating to the Neopalatial period (1700-1450 B.C.). It was covered with ash from an extensive fire ca. 1450; similar conflagrations are known to have damaged other Minoan settlements throughout Crete at this time. Maria Vlazaki, Chania's director of prehistoric and classical antiquities, says only the Minoan town's western boundary, measuring some 7,000 square feet, has thus far been excavated. Rescue excavations next to Daskaloyanni Street conducted by Vlazaki in 1989 revealed a lustral basin for ritual purification. The settlement will be temporarily covered pending further excavation and the creation of an archaeological park.
The featured article, by legal scholar Gregory J. Roden, discusses the question whether unborn children are “persons” within the language and meaning of the Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments. Because there is no constitutionaltext explicitly holding unborn children to be, or not to be,“persons,” his examination is founded on the historical understanding and practice of the law, the structure of the Constitution, and the jurisprudence of the Supreme Court. In Roe v. Wade, the state of Texas argued that “the fetus is a ‘person’within the language and meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment.”The Supreme Court responded in its majority opinion that “[i]f this suggestion of personhood is established, the appellant’s case, of course, collapses, for the fetus’ right to life would then be guaranteed specifically by the Amendment.” Unfortunately, the majority’s legal analysis arrived at the opposite conclusion, “that the word ‘person,’ as used in the Fourteenth Amendment, does not include the unborn.” It is the majority’s legal analysis that Mr. Roden examines in fine detail. First, Mr. Roden points out that the Constitution does not confer upon the federal government the power to grant or deny “personhood” under the Fourteenth Amendment. Rather, the power to recognize or deny unborn children as holders of certain statutory and common law rights and duties has historically been exercised by the states. The Roe opinion and other Supreme Court cases implicitly recognize this function of state sovereignty. Second, he demonstrates that, at the time Roe was decided, the states had exercised this power and held unborn children to be persons under their criminal, tort, and property law. Because of the unanimity of the states in holding unborn children to be persons under criminal, tort, and property law, Mr. Roden argues that the text of the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment compels federal protection of unborn children as persons. Furthermore, he shows that to the extent the Court examined the substantive law in these disciplines, its legal conclusions were not warranted. Finally, Mr.Roden illustrates the inconsistency of federal statutory law with Roe, in that it also treats unborn children as persons by recognizing their eligibility for federal entitlements. Due to the length of the featured article, no other material is included in this edition. James Bopp, Jr., J.D.
A global citizen science platform to discover, share and identify wildlife Raccoons are familiar animals with masked faces and ringed tails. They have five toes on both the front and hind feet. Their long, dexterous fingers enable them to open latches, untie knots, turn doorknobs, and open jars. Their prints look like tiny human baby handprints and footprints. Edge of Lake Lewisville Spotted on Oct 30, 2012 Submitted on Nov 2, 2012
Mexico has passed rapidly through a “nutrition transition”. The traditional Mexican diet was based on corn and beans, supplemented by fruits and vegetables with relatively little meat and dairy products. Over a 15-year period the average Mexican ate 29% less fruits and vegetables and 6% more carbohydrates while consuming 37% more soft drinks. In fact Mexicans now enjoy the dubious distinction of being the world’s greatest consumers of soft drinks, downing 160 liters a year on average. White bread is replacing tortillas, fast food is replacing home cooking. This nutrition transition, together with a more sedentary lifestyle, fueled a “disease transition”, characterized by a shift from high mortality due to infectious diseases to high mortality from non-communicable chronic diseases. To see how Mexico compares with other countries—USA, Spain, France, Japan, Russia, Brazil, South Africa, China and India— in terms of eating habits, see this recent graphical comparison: New York Times Business section article of April 3, 2010, entitled “Factory Food” Mexico’s per person consumption of vegetables is lower than any other country on the chart except South Africa. Mexico’s consumption of “processed, frozen, dried and chilled food, and read-to-eat meals” is lower than any country except China and India, but Mexicans make up for this with a consumption of “bakery goods” that is more than double that of any other country on the chart. This post includes edited excerpts from chapter 28 of of Geo-Mexico: the geography and dynamics of modern Mexico. Buy your copy today!
According to an article written for Psychology Today titled “ Brain Differences Between Genders,” written by Gregory L. Jantz, Ph.D., the differences between genders extend far beyond physical appearance and general character traits, comprising instead major distinguishers between male and female brains. Many more studies focus on this divide as well. However, according to a study done last year, which was the very first to search for sex differences across the entire human brain, most people actually have a mix of male and female features, suggesting that gender classifications in various situations are essentially meaningless. Meg John Barker, a psychologist at Open University in Milton Keynes, UK, explains that this study “provides biological support for something that we’ve known for some time—that gender isn’t binary.” Researchers examined MRI images of 1,400 different people between the ages of 13 and 85, searching for differences in the size of various brain regions as well as the connections between them. 29 regions in the brain were identified to have some differences, including the hippocampus, but when they looked at each individual brain scan, they found that only a few people — between 0 and 8 percent — had “all male” or “all female” brains. Daphna Joel, a psychologist at Tel-Aviv University involved in the study, asserts that “most people are in the middle.” (source) This study adds nuance to our understanding of gender, offering proof that, while differences in brain structures do exist between genders on average, when we look at individual brains, these differences are less substantial, with most people showing features typical to both male and female brains. The study was published in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, and of the 1,400 brains scanned, up to 53 percent showed a mix of male and female characteristics. As mentioned above, only between 0 and 8 percent were distinctly male or female. It’s a very significant study which negates our traditional views of gender being completely binary, and given the number of studies which argue otherwise, it will no doubt come as a surprise to many researchers. In response to the study, scientist Bruce McEwen at the Rockefeller University in New York remarked to New Scientist that we “are beginning to realise the complexity of what we have traditionally understood to be ‘male’ and ‘female’, and this study is the first step in that direction. I think it will change peoples’ minds.” Gender Myths and Cultural Expectations. “We separate girls and boys, men and women all the time. It’s wrong, not just politically, but scientifically – everyone is different.” – Daphna Joel, a psychologist at Tel-Aviv University “We need to start thinking a lot more carefully about how much weight we give to gender as a defining feature of human beings, and stop asking for it in situations where it simply isn’t relevant.” – Meg John Barker, a psychologist at the Open University in Milton Keynes, UK While we have come a long way towards establishing gender equality, gender myths still pervade every aspect of society in today’s world. The male obsession with sex is a commonplace in popular culture which not only diminishes the sensitivity and intelligence of men but denies the sexuality of women, who are often portrayed as disliking both sex and masturbation. Stereotypes like women being gossips or men being better at math are other examples, but there are many to choose from. Throw in cultural expectations for how each gender should dress and behave alongside targeted advertising and marketing, and the problem becomes more complicated still. Gender stereotypes continue to persist, and for years scientists have been focusing on our differences (which do exist) rather than our similarities. Why are we so obsessed with our differences, and why do we view these differences as a barrier between us instead of something that can unite us? “If a neuroscientist was given someone’s brain without their body or any additional information, they would still probably be able to guess if it had belonged to a man or a woman. Men’s brains are larger, for example, and are likely to have a larger number of “male” features overall. But the new findings suggest that it is impossible to predict what mix of brain features a person is likely to have based on their sex alone.” – New Scientist writer Jessica Hamzelou, author of “Scans prove there’s no such thing as a ‘male’ or ‘female’ brain” (source) This study also offers further compelling evidence that men and women are more similar than we once thought. The team analyzed multiple datasets which evaluated behaviours that are considered to be highly gender stereotypical, such as scrapbooking, taking a bath, or playing video games, and researchers found that individuals were just as variable for these measures, with only 0.1 percent of the subjects displaying only stereotypically-male or only stereotypically-female behaviours. According to Joel, “there is no sense in talking about male nature and female nature. There is no one person that has all the male characteristics and another person that has all the female characteristics. Or if they exist they are really, really rare to find.” (source) Interesting stuff, isn’t it? Who would have thought that our brains, although they do show some differences depending on your gender, are mostly a mix of both male and female characteristics. “Scans prove there’s no such thing as a ‘male’ or ‘female’ brain.” Written by Jessica Hamzelou in the December 5-11, 2015 edition of New Scientist Magazine. All other sources are embedded throughout the article.
Year 3 – Summer Newsletter 2023 Welcome back, I hope you all had a lovely Easter break! In English we will be covering newspaper reports, instructions & explanations, persuasive letters and finally a book study. The children will be using skills they have learnt so far along with new ones. Children really enjoyed using thesauruses last term to improve their word choices; a skill we will continue to develop. Please try and encourage your child to spend time reading every day, even if they are a confident reader it is vital they are heard reading aloud regularly. To begin the term, we will be focusing on fractions by exploring whole, tenths and equivalents and the children will take part in a daily arithmetic and recap of previous learning. To assist with children’s mathematical development encourage them to handle real money, understand the value of coins & notes, add and subtract money and give change. Practise reading analogue and digital time in a 12hr and 24hr format. Continue to practise the times tables and use Times Table Rock Stars. History and Geography In History, we will begin our Tudor topic. We will use our history knowledge from the year to explore timelines to support chronology and understanding of BC/AD. In Geography our topic will focus on North America. The children will continue to use their map skills, apply their previous learning about mountains and explore physical geography. We will start the term with a topic called Animals including Humans which recaps the children’s learning from year 2 about how animals survive and stay healthy and helps children to learn more about what makes a healthy, balanced diet. They will learn about the nutrients that different foods provide and how these nutrients help our bodies. We will also explore how different animals eat different types of foods and need different proportions of nutrients. We will look at food labels on packaging to gather information about content. We will be continuing with ‘how to stay safe online’ which will an ongoing theme throughout the school year. Children will be using the school laptops and iPads to further develop researching skills and ensuring we use trusted websites. The children will also learn how to use Microsoft PowerPoint to create presentations. Art and Design & Technology In art we will be studying the artist Quentin Blake and exploring self-portraits. The children will be learning to use constructive criticism to further improve their artwork. In Design & Technology we will be looking at designing, making, and evaluating a healthy packed lunch! Children will be surveying other year groups to find out what they have in their packed lunches and consider what makes a healthy packed lunch. Our learning in science will further support this. In RE we be looking at ‘What do Muslims believe about god?’ Our PSHE learning will continue to support children’s mental health. We will also be exploring physical wellbeing, growing & changing, and keeping safe. This will cover positive friendships, what makes a good friend, dental health, healthy sleep, calling for help in an emergency, how to help someone if they have been bitten or stung, water safety around rivers/canals, risks with flooding, and much more. In Music we will be developing the skills of listening and appraising, musical activities and perform and review. The children will learn songs and explore different percussion instruments. We will have PE on a Monday with myself and Mr Snelling on a Thursday afternoon. Please make sure the children come into school in the correct PE kits on both days. Our French topics this term will revisit previous topics and we will then move onto following instructions, name parts of the body, identify colours and say what they are wearing. Children we be able to verbalise, read and write simple words and phrases in French. Learning task- Each week your child will have a learning task. This will either be linked to school English, Maths, Topic or Science. This task should take 20/30 minutes. This is set on a Friday and should be returned the following Thursday (to allow marking time!) Spellings- These are being sent home on a half termly basis. Your child still must learn weekly words for a weekly test. On the word sheet each week is dated based on when the spellings are set, they will be tested the following Friday. Children have been grouped based on a diagnostic test and my assessment from their application in their work. If you feel your child can learn the words with ease, for the test, please test them on their application in a sentence. Tests are on a Friday morning in a spelling book kept at school- the children will be shown their score. Children can practise their spellings using look, write, cover check at the back of their learning log. Times Tables- It is so important all children are practicing their times tables. This should be done a minimum of 3 times a week but ideally daily. They should be valued in the same way as all homework activities. I will be awarding stickers/ certificates for those playing Times Table Rock Stars if you are using an alternative way to learn times tables this is ok. Reading- Reading is still crucial, even once on a free reader! Books and reading journals MUST be in school every day as they use these whenever there is time for quiet reading. If you have any questions or concerns at any time, please email me via the office and I will get back to you as soon as possible.
Missionary & Travel Resources The records and publications of missionaries and explorers are important for African history. Individual autobiographes and other published work are generally listed in discoverE under the name of the individual author or organization. Specialized Guides and Reference Books: Christian Missions in Africa, a libguide being developed by the University of Pennsylvania. The Church in Africa 1450-1950 by Adrian Hastings (Theol. BR1360 .H364 1994) is an important work on Christian missionary activity . An electronic version is available to the Emory community. Includes an extensive bibliography and section on maps. Updated by A History of African Christianity, 1950–1975. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 1979. (BR1360 .H366 also in Theol.) Dictionary of African Christian Biography(Boston University) International Mission Bibliography: 1960-2000 by Norman E. Thomas.(Theol.Ref. Z7817 .I58 2003 ) Lists the most important works in all areas of missionary disciplines. The section on Africa has 1,375 annotated entries covering the history, publications, and archives of various missionary groups. Includes an extensive index of names.This is a key resource for identifying and using missionary primary resources. Missionary and World Christianity Research Guide. (Yale University) Missionary Periodicals Database (Yale University) aims to record all periodicals on foreign missions published in Britain, between the eighteenth century and the 1960s, by missionary societies and commercial publishers, giving full bibliographical details, information on contents and locations. MUNDUS GATEWAY TO MISSIONARY COLLECTIONS IN THE UNITED KINGDOM An important database that contains descriptions of more than 400 collections accumulated in Britain by individuals and societies engaged in the overseas missionary movement between the eighteenth and twentieth centuries. The holdings of over 40 institutions in the United Kingdom are represented. A wide-variety of search tools are included including map searching which allows you to locate mission groups working in various African regions. White Men's God: the Extraordinary Story of Missionaries in Africa. Ballard, Martin. Greenwood. 2008. BV3500 .B24 2008 Theology Sets missionary story in larger political context. WOMEN TRAVELERS, EXPLORERS AND MISSIONARIES TO AFRICA: 1763-2002 lists accounts of travels published in English. This can be used together with the print Semper ex Africa…A Bibliography of Primary Sources for Nineteenth-Century Tropical Africa as Recorded by Explorers, Missionaries, Traders, Travelers, Administrators, Military Men, Adventurers and Others (Z3501 H37) to locate published accounts. World Survey of Islamic Manuscripts edited by Geoffrey Roper. London:Brill, 1991-1994 . (Z6611.I84W96 )See Also Arabic Manuscripts from West Africa Online catalog at Northwestern University. Yale University Divinity School Library is a world-renowned collection documenting world Christianity and the history of the missionary movement. SEE ITS Missionary and World Christianity Research Guide. Oxford Bibliographies:African Studies has several sections of interest: African Christianity; African Traditional Religion which cover scholarship on these topics. Also Important : African Research and Documentation. DT19.8.A35 contains many articles about mississionary archives including "A Guide to Africa ist Research in the Archive of the American Baptist Historical Society," No. 111, 2009, pp 21-29. "Go Ye Into the World: Missionary Archives in the School of Oriental and African Studies, 2005, no. 98, pp. 41-68. "Feature: Christian Missions in South Africa," South African Historical Journal, vol 61, Issue 2, 2009. (DT776 .S585). "Christian Mission Stations 1792-1914," Chapter 53, Historical Atlas of Africa, (Ref. atlas G2446 S1H5 1985) features maps showing the location of mission stations throughout Africa as well as the spread of Islam. - International Mission Photography Archive(University of Southern California) offers historical images from Protestant and Catholic missionary collections in Britain, Norway, Germany, France, Switzerland, and the United States. The photographs, which range in time from the middle of the nineteenth to the middle of the twentieth century, offer a visual record of missionary activities and experiences in Africa, China, Madagascar, India, Papua-New Guinea, and the Caribbean. Henry Martyn Centre for Mission Studies, Westminster College, Cambridge holds some 2,000 photographs dating from the late 19th century chiefly covering Egypt, Sub-Saharan Africa and India. Images cover not only the work of missionaries in fields such as preaching, conversion, education and medicine, but also illustrate the lands and the people of the nations in which they served, providing a valuable research tool for many academic disciplines. Some have been digitised and are available on their archive webpages. Missionary Settlements in South Africa, 1800-1925, South African History Online (SAHO) compiled by Franco Frescura. A study of missionary settlement and the spread of Christianity in southern Africa during the period 1800 - 1925, including a piece on the role of missionaries, a list of mission stations, and case studies of individual mission stations. Selected Collections at Emory: The Woodruff Library has extensive holdings of the records of the Church Missionary Society, the Methodist Church, the Presbyterian Board of Foreign Missions, Regions Beyond Missionary Union, the United Society for the Propagation of the Gospel, and the Sudan United Mission (SUM). Search EUCLID under name of organization or explorer. Many large collections are in microform. Most microfilm holdings are also listed in Emory Microfilm Gateway EMORY MICROFILM GATEWAY includes annotated listings for major microfilm sets in the Woodruff Library only. Look under the categories "Africa," "Religion," and "Slavery. Not complete. Update though using EUCLID. NOTE: A number of the microform collections have been digitized in British Records on the Atlantic World, 1700-1900 , Archives Unbound, and British Online Archives. Currently the only way to reach the Microfilm Gateway is to type direct addresses into your web browser: For overall category list type: http://arachne.library.emory.edu/web/libraries/microforms_gateway.html (Note: This allows you to browse subjects but the links will not work. You must type in the individual URLs below.) Slavery: American: http://arachne.library.emory.edu/web/libraries/microform_slavery_american.html Slavery: British: http://arachne.library.emory.edu/web/libraries/microform_slavery_british.html Woodruff microforms are found on Level 1 which also houses readers and printers. MARBL (Emory's special collections division in Woodruff Library) has a Guide to Methodist History which includes missionary material. Papers of the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions. (Theology microfilm BV2360 A4)Harvard Guide; Reel List The Pitts Theology Library holds a large collection representing the missionary activity of the Methodist Church in both print and microform. Many holdings can be located by doing a EUCLID search under " Methodist Episcopal Church Missions Africa." Also check the Pitts web page Sub-Saharan African Collections . Abolition & Emancipation (Micfilm 3143) is an on-going microform collection which includes the papers of Thomas Clarkston, William Wilberforce and other individuals or organizations active in the anti-slavery movement. Print and digital guides are available. Africa Through Western Eyes (Micfilm 3948) is an ongoing microfilm collection which contains large numbers of small collections of papers of explorers, traders, tourists, diplomats, soldiers and missionaries from the 19th through the early 20th centuries. Print and Digital Guides available. Archives Unbound contains a variety of topical collections which have been digitized including Archives Unbound, Evangelism in Africa: Correspondence of the Board of Foreign Missions, 1835-1910 Presbyterian mission work in Africa commenced in 1833 and throughout the l9th century expanded to several different areas therein. These included: Liberia, 1833-94; Corsico, 1850-75; Spanish Guinea, 1865-1924, 1932: Gaboon, 1871-92; Ogowe, 1874-92; and the Cameroon, 1889-1972. British Records on the Atlantic World, 1700-1900: Contains Early colonial and missionary records from West Africa , Papers of Thomas Perronet Thompson relating to Sierra Leone, Papers of the Company of Scotland Trading to Africa and the Indies, 1694-1709, The papers of William Davenport & Co., 1745-1797 and Records relating to the slave trade at the Liverpool Record Office. Church Missionary Society Archive (CMS) (micfilm 3309; Section IV is Africa but also look in General sections) About 2/3 of the CMS archives has been filmed. More info about CMS Archives. 1896 Map of CMS missions in Africa and explorers. You will find other missionary archives listed at http://arachne.library.emory.edu/web/libraries/microform_religion_missions.html (paste into your browser) Empire Online features a wide variety of material including: exploration journals and logs; letter books and correspondence; periodicals; diaries; official governmentpPapers; missionary papers; travel writing; slave papers; memoirs; folk tales; exhibition catalogues and guides; Maps; Photographs; and Illustrations for the British Empire. Not limited to Africa. Gold Coast records from the archives of the USPG, 1886-1951 (also microfilm 4042 Woodruff Library) Guide Monumenta Missionaria Africana. Africa Ocidental, first and second series by Antonia Brasio (BV 3500 .B67 & BV3500 .B672) is a multivolume set documenting the history of the Catholic Church in Africa. Considered to be a standard source documenting European activities in Africa prior to 1700. Travel Descriptions of South Africa 1711-1938 is an extensive collection of published explorer's accounts in microfiche (Microfiche 1569). Each account is also individually cataloged in EUCLID. Slavery, Abolition and Social Justice, 1490-2007 is an important portal for slavery and abolition studies, bringing together original manuscripts and rare printed material from libraries and archives across the Atlantic world for the period 1490-2007. Close attention is being given to the varieties of slavery, the legacy of slavery, the social justice perspective and the continued existence of slavery today. Universities' Mission to Central Africa William Wiberforce: Slavery, Religion and Politics (Micfilm 4003) contains papers from the Bodleian Library, Oxford, Wilberforce House, Hull, etc. Print and digital guides available. HINT: There are numerous other anti-slavery collections of interest. Check discoverE for holdings and look for other research guides in African-American Studies. Emory is also a member of the Center for Research Libraries (CRL) a consortial lending library of rarer materials. CRL collections include missionary materials in a variety of formats. See Topic guide for Religion/Philosphyand African Studies. All CRL materials can be borrowed by Emory researchers or used online.
A representative of the American clothing industry recently made the following statement: “Workers in Asia often work in sweatshop conditions earning only pennies an hour. American workers are more productive and as a result earn higher wages. In order to preserve the dignity of the American workplace, the government should enact legislation banning imports of low - wage Asian clothing.” In the ancient country of Roma, only two goods, spaghetti and meatballs, are produced. There are two tribes in Roma, the Tivoli and the Frivoli. By themselves, the Tivoli each month can produce either 30 pounds of spaghetti and no meatballs, or 50 pounds of meatballs and no spaghetti, or any combination in between. The Frivoli, by themselves, each month can produce 40 pounds of spaghetti and no meatballs, or 30 pounds of meatballs and no spaghetti, or any combination in between. According to the U.S. Census Bureau, in July 2006 the United States exported aircraft worth $1 billion to China and imported aircraft worth only $19,000 from China. During the same month, however, the United States imported $83 million worth of men’s trousers, slacks, and jeans from China but exported only $8,000 worth of trousers, slacks, and jeans to China. Using what you have learned about how trade is determined by comparative advantage, answer the following questions.
Tree Shade Adaptation of Turfgrass Species and Cultivars in France1 - A. Chesnel, - R. Croise and - B. Bourgoin The comparative shade adaptation of the principle cool-season turfgrass species was investigated under a natural tree shade environment in 1974 and 1975. Two trials were conducted. One was established at Ets Vilmorin at Beaufort en Valleé near Angers, France on an acidic sandy soil under the shade of leafy, coniferous trees and the second site was established by the Institut National de la Recherche Agronomique (INRA) at Poitiers, France on a clay soil with a very dense tree canopy. Comparative adaptation of the various cool-season turfgrass species varied between the two sites in 1974 and 1975. The bentgrass (Agrostis spp.) species were best at the Beaufort en Valleé site while shade (Festuca heterophylla Lam.) and red (F. rubra L.) fescues and roughstalk bluegrass (Poa trivialis L.) were the most promising at Poitiers. Most of the cool-season species and cultivars evaluated in the test had almost completely disappeared in both shade sites by late 1975. The rate of disappearance was greater at Poitiers which was attributed to the greater shade canopy density and lower cultural intensity.Please view the pdf by using the Full Text (PDF) link under 'View' to the left. Copyright © 1980. . Copyright © 1980 by the American Society of Agronomy, Crop Science Society of America, Soil Science Society of America, and International Turfgrass Society, 5585 Guilford Rd., Madison, WI 53711 USA
Ballet is a performance type of dance originating from Italy then developed in France, but was further developed in Russia in the 1920’s. Various techniques are used in Ballet that involve various moves. The main types of dance moves include: Allegro: A dance which involves fast and brisk steps. Glasses need to be secure for this sequence because it’s fast paced. Pirouette turns: Spinning on one leg and leaving the other leg off the ground. Take caution with this move. Coupé-jete’ en tournant: During this move, dancers jump and turn simultaneously either in a circle or in a straight line. Wearing specs will not get in the way. Grand Plies: This move involves bending your knees, and at the same time lowering your head with a full turn circle of the head. Coordinating the movement gracefully could be challenging for dancers. Sauté: This routine is about taking small jumps with a great deal of energy. They are warm up jumps, which could cause specs to fall off unexpectedly. Ballon: This involves a dancer being suspended while making dance moves. Have You Ever Seen a Ballerina Wearing Specs? It is not rare to see a Ballerina wear glasses while performing an Allegro or Ballon, but some might prefer contact lenses. You might want to switch between the two i.e. contacts and glasses, or wear glasses for your day to day activities but switch to contacts just before your exiting performance. It is very important for dancers to see clearly and crucial for catching things. Some Ballerinas even complain about not being able to see the teacher’s facial expression which makes it harder to perform, not knowing if the teacher has made a gesture or eye contact. Some Ballet teachers are sometimes reluctant to allow Ballerinas to wear specs for shows or upcoming performances. But, they are quite happy for them to wear them during rehearsals or training sessions. Switch from contacts to glasses. Don’t give up on wearing specs just because you are a Ballerina. Ensure they are well fastened and not slipping off your face. Avoid fiddling with them because this will cause a distraction. However, glasses are ideal for those who are short sighted as they help to spot those hidden corners, preventing accidents. As glasses could easily fly off their heads during a routine dance. For safety reasons, invest in a pair of lightweight frames similar to these Oakley OX8105 PITCHMAN R goggles below. Also, when doing your turns and sweating simultaneously, glasses can slide off your face, giving you a headache. Alternatively, practice your routines with glasses then swap to contact lenses like these Ciba vision Air Optic Colors below for the performances. Some Ballerinas are severely myopic and cannot dance without glasses. If contacts haven’t worked for you either, then it might be worth buying a special fastener, tape or equipment to keep them glued on temporarily. Get regular checks at the opticians who can adjust them and make sure they are the correct fit and also to ensure the glasses are in good working condition. Invest in a light frame avoiding thicker, heavier glasses that are likely to weigh you down. Wear your specs with pride regardless. It’s all about finding that balance and not taking the slightest notice of the audience. If your prescribed specs make you feel comfortable then it will be beneficial to keep them on them. Learn more about musical star styles Tag #SelectSpecsSelfie for a chance to be featured on our page!
DNA from an ancient baby’s skeleton shows that all Native Americans descend from a single gene pool. And their ancestral roots are in Asia, a new study finds. The bones came from a roughly 12- to 18-month-old boy. He died about 12,600 years ago in what is now Montana. Construction workers uncovered the grave in 1968. It remains the only known burial site of a person from the Clovis culture. Clovis is the name of prehistoric people. They lived in what is now the United States and northern Mexico between about 13,000 and 12,600 years ago. They made a type of stone spear point that differs from stone tools found elsewhere in the world at the time. The young boy had been covered in red ochre. It’s a natural pigment that had often been used in burial rituals at the time. More than 100 tools had been placed atop his body when it was buried. Those tools also had been dipped in red ochre. Some were the stone spear points or tools used to make the spear points.. People had fashioned rods from elk antlers, a rare material in Montana at the time. The bone tools were 13,000 years old — hundreds of years older than the child’s parents. The bone rods had been deliberately broken before being placed with the boy’s body. That suggests these ancient tools could have been family “heirlooms,” the scientists say. All of those details are fairly old. Decades old, at least. What’s new are analyses of the Clovis child’s DNA. Just reported in the Feb. 13 Nature, they indicate that the Clovis people were ancestors of all present-day Native Americans. And like today’s Native Americans, the Clovis baby — known as Anzick-1 — can trace part of his heritage to a child known as the Mal’ta boy. He lived in Siberia 24,000 years ago. That link now suggests that all Native American populations share a common Asian heritage. This is where the Clovis baby’s skeleton was unearthed. The pole (center left) marks the burial site, which look out towards scenic, snow-capped mountains. From Asian — not European — roots “This clearly shows that the homeland of the first Americans was Asia,” says study coauthor Michael Waters. He’s a geologist and archaeologist at Texas A&M University in College Station. The study may put to rest an oft-reported idea that ancient Europeans crossed the Atlantic and established the Clovis culture. That idea has been known as the Solutrean hypothesis. The new analysis is “the last spade full of earth on the grave of the Solutrean hypothesis,” says Jennifer Raff. An anthropological geneticist, she works at the University of Texas at Austin. She had no role in the current analysis. The study also may settle speculation about the Clovis people’s relationship to modern Native Americans. Clovis culture was widespread for 400 years after the last Ice Age. Other styles of tool making eventually replaced the distinctive stone spear points made by Clovis people. That was among clues indicating that other American settlers might have replaced the Clovis people. “Their technology and tools vanished, but now we understand that their genetic legacy lives on,” says Sarah Anzick, a coauthor of the new study. Anzick was 2 years old when the baby’s grave was found on her family’s land. Since then, she and her family have been stewards of the bones, keeping them respectfully preserved and locked away. Respecting the bones In time, Anzick became a molecular biologist, at one point working on the Human Genome Project. (Completed in April 2003, it gave scientists an ability to read a person’s full genetic blueprints.) Based on that experience, Anzick made it a personal goal to decipher the Clovis baby’s DNA. So she traveled with the child’s bones to the lab of Eske Willerslev. He’s an evolutionary geneticist at the University of Copenhagen, in Denmark. There, she helped extract DNA from the skeleton and performed some of the initial tests. Willerslev and his colleagues completed the rest of the toddler’s genetic blueprints. Their examination shows that about one-third of the Clovis baby’s genome traces back to the ancient Siberian people, says Willerslev. The remainder, he says, comes from an ancestral East Asian population. The new data suggest East Asians and Siberians interbred before the Clovis era. Their descendants would have become the founding population for all later Native Americans. About four out of five Native Americans, mainly those in Central and South America, probably descend directly from the Anzick baby’s people, Willerslev says. Other native peoples, such as those in Canada, are closely related to the Clovis child. They, however, come from a different branch of the family. Anzick iand members of several Native American tribes are preparing to rebury the baby’s remains where his parents had left him more than 12 millennia ago. It’s at the base of a sandstone cliff. The site overlooks a creek with views of three mountain ranges. archaeology The study of human history and prehistory through the excavation of sites and the analysis of artifacts and other physical remains. People who work in this field are known as archaeologists. Clovis people Prehistoric humans who inhabited much of North America between about 13,000 and 12,600 years ago. They are known primarily by the cultural artifacts they left behind, especially a type of stone point used on hunting spears. It’s called the Clovis point. It was named after Clovis, New Mexico, where someone first found this type of stone tool. gene A segment of DNA that codes, or holds instructions, for producing a protein. Offspring inherit genes from their parents. Genes influence how an organism looks and behaves. evolutionary genetics A field of biology that focuses on how genes — and the traits they lead to — change over long periods of time (potentially over millennia or more). People who work in this field are known as evolutionary geneticists genome The complete set of genes or genetic material in a cell or an organism. geology The study of Earth’s physical structure and substance, its history and the processes that act on it. People who work in this field are known as geologists. Ice Age Earth has experienced at least five major Ice Ages, which are prolonged periods of unusually cold weather experienced by much of the planet. During that time, which can last hundreds to thousands of years, glaciers and ice sheets expand in size and depth. The most recent Ice Age peaked 21,500 years ago, but continued until about 13,000 years ago. molecular biology The branch of biology that deals with the structure and function of molecules essential to life. Scientists who work in this field are called molecular biologists. pigment A material, like the natural colorings in paints and dyes, that alter the light reflected off of an object or transmitted through it. The overall color of a pigment typically depends on which wavelengths of visible light it absorbs and which ones it reflects. For example, a red pigment tends to reflect red wavelengths of light very well and typically absorbs other colors. red ochre A natural pigment often been used in ancient burial rituals. Solutrean hypothesis The idea that ancient Europeans crossed the Atlantic and established the Clovis culture. Stone Age A prehistoric period, lasting millions of years and ending tens of thousands of years ago, when weapons and tools were made of stone or of materials such as bone, wood, or horn.
The Suez Canal Bridge, also known as the Shohada 25 January Bridge or the Egyptian-Japanese Friendship Bridge, is a road bridge crossing the Suez Canal at El Qantara. The Arabic "al qantara" means "the bridge". The bridge links the continents of Africa and Asia. The bridge was built with assistance from the Japanese government. The contractor was PentaOcean Construction. The Japanese grant, accounting for 60% of the construction cost (or 13.5 billion yen), was agreed to during the visit of then-President Mubarak to Japan in March 1995, as part of a larger project to develop the Sinai Peninsula. Egypt bore the remaining 40% (9 billion yen). The bridge opened in October 2001. The bridge, which has a 70-metre (230 ft) clearance over the canal and is 3.9 kilometres (2.4 mi) long, consists of a 400-metre (1,300 ft) cable-stayed main span and two 1.8-kilometre (1.1 mi) long approach spans.
Math Field Day Events Math Field Day is designed to stimulate interest in mathematics and to recognize mathematical ability and achievement among Michigan high school students. Any secondary school in Michigan is eligible to participate. Each school’s team consists of at most five students. The contestants may be in any grade, except that only freshmen and sophomores are eligible for Mad Hatter B. Each team must be accompanied by a faculty advisor to help proctor events. THE TEAM: The team of five members consists of two students for the Leapfrog, one student for the Chalk Talk, one student for the Mad Hatter A, and one student (who must be a freshman or sophomore) for the Mad Hatter B competition. Teams with less than five members are welcome; they are subject to the same rules and are eligible for all awards. Each student may enter only one individual event. Each school may select its team as it wishes. THE INDIVIDUAL EVENTS: 1. Chalk Talk. This event calls for the preparation and delivery of a clear, sound, and convincing mathematical discussion. Each student will present a five-minute chalkboard talk before a faculty judge. Each speaker will be questioned at the end of the talk. Notes may be used, if necessary, but the fewer notes the better. A memorized talk is neither required nor desired. Visual aids may be used if truly appropriate for a particular topic, but only as a supplement to the chalkboard presentation. Students will be judged on the presentation, mathematical content, chalkboard use, and response to questions. Penalties will be given for exceeding the five-minute time limit. Entrants should prepare a talk on one of two topics to be announced soon. A list of recommended references will be provided. There will be one winner in each of the assigned chalk talk rooms. 2. Leapfrog. This event calls for the ability to work with a partner to solve challenging mathematical problems. Problems will be chosen from all high school subjects in mathematics, and some will require original thinking. The two designated students from each team work together in one 50-minute session. A set of eight questions is provided. The team members decide how to organize their time and effort. They may communicate very quietly and should check each other's work. Problems are graded either right or wrong, with no partial credit given. To encourage proper checking, the score is twice the number of right answers minus the number of wrong answers, with blank answers not counted. 3. Mad Hatter A. This is a rapid computation and reasoning contest in which problems are shown on a screen. The student works the problem and writes the answer on an answer sheet. As soon as enough time has passed for about half the students to work the problem, the next problem is given. There are 40 problems. Mad Hatter B. This competition is similar to the Mad Hatter A but is open only to freshmen and sophomores. THE TEAM EVENTS: 4. Swiss Game. Two teams are interleaved. Team members receive a list of paired values based on a secret rule, with some values missing. Members of the two teams alternate guesses of missing values, and teams receive points for correct guesses. There are four games. 5. Team Essay. The entire team works together to explore a mathematical topic, guided by a series of questions. At the end of forty minutes, the team turns in one answer to each question. Each answer is written in the form of an essay. Answers will be judged on mathematical content, grammar, and the style in which they are written. 6. Relays. Each team member is given a problem requiring for its complete solution the answer to another member’s problem. Answers are passed from one member to the next, with the anchor person handing answers to the team’s proctor. Only the answer handed in is considered, and points are awarded for correct answers based on the elapsed time. There are four relays. 7. Huddle. Each team is assigned a room with a blackboard and given ten minutes to solve four problems. THE AWARDS: Awards are presented at the end of the day. Medals are given for individual events, and plaques are given for the Essay. Five books and a trophy for overall team performance are awarded to a Grand Champion team and nine other teams: first, second, and third place teams in three divisions based on school enrollment and draw. Corrected student papers and an overall scoresheet will be mailed to advisors the week after the competition.
The USDA is helping honeybees with plans to spend $3 million to improve farmlands and pastures in the Midwest and in the process help feed bees that in recent years have seen their numbers continually dwindle due to the phenomenon known as colony collapse disorder. On Tuesday, the U.S. Department of Agriculture announced plans aimed at helping farmers and ranchers in Michigan, Minnesota, Wisconsin and the Dakotas by improving pastures frequented by honeybees. Many beekeepers bring hives to the Upper Midwest in the summer for bees to gather nectar and pollen for food, the Associated Press reported . The honeybees are then trucked to California and other states in the spring where they pollinate everything from almonds to apples to avocadoes. Urgent: Do You Approve Or Disapprove of President Obama's Job Performance? Vote Now in Urgent Poll "Honey bee pollination supports an estimated $15 billion worth of agricultural production, including more than 130 fruits and vegetables that are the foundation of a nutritious diet," Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack said in a press release "The future security of America’s food supply depends on healthy honey bees," Vilsack added. "Expanded support for research, combined with USDA’s other efforts to improve honey bee health, should help America’s beekeepers combat the current, unprecedented loss of honey bee hives each year." Since the winter of 2006, as much as one-third of the nation's honeybees have disappeared due to colony collapse disorder Though the official cause of the massive honey bee die-off has yet to be determined, scientists and beekeepers alike suspect that pesticides likely play a role. Additionally, the arrival of Varroa mites, which reportedly spread a virus among bees, has increased the honey bee's decline to a greater extent, according to scientists. The USDA hopes to stem those losses by providing more areas for bees to build up food stores and strength for winter. The new program will be "a real shot in the arm" for improving bees' habitat and food supply, said Jason Weller, chief of USDA's Natural Resources Conservation Service, the AP reported. In order to qualify for the USDA money, dairy farmers and ranchers in the above mentioned Midwest states must reseed pastures with alfalfa, clover and other plants appealing to both bees and livestock. The money can also reportedly be used towards the construction of fences to prevent grazing animals from wandering into pastures preferred by the bees and grazing on the vegetation that attracts the valuable, pollinating insects. "It's a win for the livestock guys, and it's a win for the managed honeybee population," Weller added. "And it's a win then for orchardists and other specialty crop producers across the nation because then you're going to have a healthier, more robust bee population that then goes out and helps pollinate important crops." In its press release, the USDA estimates that 65 percent of the nation's estimated 30,000 commercial beekeepers bring their hives to the five states above, which is the reason why they were selected. Editor's Note: ObamaCare Is Here. Are You Prepared? © 2014 Newsmax. All rights reserved.
The ORBIS Flying Eye Hospital is literally a hospital with wings that brings together dedicated eye care professionals and aviators to give the gift of sight to developing countries around the world. ORBIS is a nonprofit, global development organization whose mission is to eliminate avoidable blindness in developing countries. The majority of ORBIS projects concentrate on avoidable blindness among children. Onboard the refurbished DC-10 jet aircraft, local doctors, nurses and technicians work alongside ORBIS’s international medical team to exchange knowledge and improve skills. Since its first flight in 1982, the ORBIS Flying Eye Hospital has traveled to more than 70 countries and has directly treated more than 9.7 million people for blindness-related diseases and conditions. By training local doctors and eye care workers, who in turn teach their colleagues, ORBIS is strengthening the capabilities of local health care communities in blindness prevention and treatment.
There are many ways to find articles in the ISU Library, all beginning at the e-Library homepage. Here are five different approaches to consider--choose the one that best meets your need! In the Quick Search box on the e-Library homepage, use the first drop-down menu to select "Articles." If you wish, you can use the remaining drop-down menus to provide additional information about your keyword(s). The system will retrieve articles from the Quick Search Articles database, a single collection of over 400 million articles from major journal publishers and open access repositories. Many of the articles you retrieve will be available in full-text. Not all article databases are available via Quick Search. For more database options, or to search a specific article database through its own unique interface, try... Article Indexes & Databases On the Article Indexes and Databases page, you can use the subject/research area and sub-category dropdowns to see a list of subject-related databases, browse alphabetically by database title or use the Title search to locate a specific database. To search the database, click on the database name. To view information about a database, click on the information icon that follows some (but not all) database names. If you're looking for a specific electronic journal, you can use the Journals (A-Z) link on the e-Library homepage. Currently, this tool provides access to e-journals only. Journals that are available only in printed format cannot be accessed in this way. Instead, you must use Quick Search. Specific article by citation If you're looking for a specific known article, you can enter the article title and identifying information for the journal in Citation Linker. Librarians at ISU have prepared numerous guides to support research--both basic and advanced--in a variety of subject areas. Some guides are tailored to specific ISU courses. Often these guides provide helpful information on locating articles in relevant journals, magazines, and newspapers. Need more help? Contact staff at the Help & Information Desk during its open hours, or Ask us!
Nicene and Post-Nicene Fathers, Vol. V:Early Church Fathers Index Previous Next A Work on the Proceedings of Pelagius.: Chapter 3 Chapter 3.—Discussion of Pelagius First Answer. Now to say that “a man is by the knowledge of the law assisted towards not sinning,” is a different assertion from saying that “a man cannot be without sin unless he has acquired a knowledge of the law.” We see, for example, that corn-floors may be threshed without threshing-sledges,—however much these may assist the operation if we have them; and that boys can find their way to school without the pedagogue,—however valuable for this may be the office of pedagogues; and that many persons recover from sickness without physicians,—although the doctors skill is clearly of greatest use; and that men sometimes live on other aliments besides bread,—however valuable the use of bread must needs be allowed to be; and many other illustrations may occur to the thoughtful reader, without our prompting. From which examples we are undoubtedly reminded that there are two sorts of aids. Some are indispensable, and without their help the desired result could not be attained. Without a ship, for instance, no man could take a voyage; no man could speak without a voice; without legs no man could walk; without light nobody could see; and so on in numberless instances. Amongst them this also may be reckoned, that without Gods grace no man can live rightly. But then, again, there are other helps, which render us assistance in such a way that we might in some other way effect the object to which they are ordinarily auxiliary in their absence. Such are those which I have already mentioned,—the threshing-sledges for threshing corn, the pedagogue for conducting the child, medical art applied to the recovery of health, and other like instances. We have therefore to inquire to which of these two classes belongs the knowledge of the law,—in other words, to consider in what way it helps us towards the avoidance of sin. If it be in the sense of indispensable aid without which the end cannot be attained; not only was Pelagius answer before the judges true, but what he wrote in his book was true also. If, however, it be of such a character that it helps indeed if it is present, but even if it be absent, then the result is still possible to be attained by some other means,—his answer to the judges was still true, and not unreasonably did it find favour with the bishops that “man is assisted not to sin by the knowledge of the law;” but what he wrote in his book is not true, that “there is no man without sin except him who has acquired a knowledge of the law,”—a statement which the judges left undiscussed, as they were ignorant of the Latin language, and were content with the confession of the man who was pleading his cause before them, especially as no one was present on the other side who could oblige the interpreter to expose his meaning by an explanation of the words of his book, and to show why it was that the brethren were not groundlessly disturbed. For but very few persons are thoroughly acquainted with the law. The mass of the members of Christ, who are scattered abroad everywhere, being ignorant of the very profound and complicated contents of the law, are commended by the piety of simple faith and unfailing hope in God, and sincere love. Endowed with such gifts, they trust that by the grace of God they may be purged from their sins through our Lord Jesus Christ. Next: Chapter 4 Like & share St-Takla.org © Saint Takla Haymanout Website: Coptic Orthodox Church - Alexandria, Egypt / URL: http://St-Takla.org / Contact us at
Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Queensland Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander-related collections available through State Library. Contemporary stories and videos about and by Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people. (Please note: the stories may contain references to or images of people who are deceased.) The history and culture of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people and communities in Queensland is diverse, rich and alive. Details and locations of Indigenous Knowledge Centres (IKC) throughout Queensland as part of partnerships between Local Governments and State Library. Discover what’s happening behind the scenes and dig deeper into events, exhibitions and activities at kuril dhagun (SLQ’s Indigenous Knowledge Centre), throughout SLQ and in the wider Queensland community kuril dhagun is a space within State Library's South Bank building devoted to Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander culture. Find out about Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander languages, language centres and language resources in Queensland. Information about plans, protocols, policies and strategies relating to Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people used by State Library. Indigenous resources available at State Library include books and other material, articles in online databases, images and websites. State Library of Queensland provides special library services for members who have an SLQ membership card (formerly known as an e-services card). Discover an eclectic range of books, gifts, reproduction prints and more at the Library Shop.
The U.S. Department of Homeland Security recommends all individuals take the time to learn more about what is often termed as an “active shooter.” An Active Shooter is an individual actively engaged in killing or attempting to kill people in a confined and populated area; in most cases, active shooters use firearms and there is no pattern or method to their selection of victims. Active shooter situations are unpredictable and evolve quickly. Typically, the immediate deployment of law enforcement is required to stop the shooting and mitigate harm to victims. Because active shooter situations are often over within 10 to 15 minutes, before law enforcement arrives on the scene, individuals must be prepared both mentally and physically to deal with an active shooter situation. Good practices for coping with an active shooter situation Be aware of your environment and any possible dangers. Take note of the exits in any facility you visit. If you are in an office, stay there and secure the door. If you are in a hallway, get into a room and secure the door. Call 9-1-1 when it is safe to do so. Since 2002, the Advanced Law Enforcement Rapid Response Training (ALERRT)™ Program at Texas State University has been used to train law enforcement officers across the nation in how to rapidly respond to dangerous active threat situations. Over the years we’ve seen response times shorten and the capabilities of law enforcement increase. As a result of increased public awareness, many citizens have asked what individuals can do protect themselves and reduce the dangers faced during one of these events. Avoid | Deny |Defend™ has been developed as an easy to remember method for individuals to follow. As we’ve seen that hiding and hoping isn’t a very effective strategy.
Ever heard of hydroforming? It’s a manufacturing process used to form sheet metal into shapes using water at extremely high pressures. Not something you can do at home… unless of course you’re [Colin Furze]. Hydroforming works by evenly distributing pressure via water (conveniently, in-compressible) against sheet metal inside of a mold. Many automotive parts are created in this fashion. Typical systems run at around 15,000 PSI. After building a giant pulse jet engine (complete with butt) to fart on France, [Colin] got the idea from a YouTube comment to try to do hydroforming at home — bending the sheet metal for the giant derriere wasn’t that easy. Hydroforming on the other hand is a surprisingly simple process. Weld some sheet metal together, add a pipe fitting to connect your cheap pressure washer and boom — hydoformed metal parts. Whoa — aren’t we missing a step here? Typical hydroforming uses a mold to push the sheet metal against in order to form a shape. [Colin’s] first attempts are mold-less which limits the complexity of parts he’s able to form — although he is able to make a pretty nice conical exhaust for his souped up mobility scooter… In the next video he promises to make something very functional out of the process so we’re excited to see what he comes up with. It might be feasible to make molds using concrete, so that may be a possibility. Don’t forget your safety tie if you’re going to try this!
icefishArticle Free Pass icefish, any of several different fishes, among them certain members of the family Channichthyidae, or Chaenichthyidae (order Perciformes), sometimes called crocodile icefish because of the shape of the snout. They are also called white-blooded fish, because they lack red blood cells and hemoglobin. Their blood carries much less oxygen than that of red-blooded fish, but icefish have larger hearts and gill blood vessels to circulate a greater volume of blood, and this extracts sufficient oxygen from the oxygen-rich waters of the Southern Ocean. Most of the 16 species of crocodile icefishes occur in the Antarctic and feed on crustaceans and small fish. What made you want to look up "icefish"? Please share what surprised you most...
51. The overall description of a database is calledâ€¦â€¦â€¦â€¦â€¦â€¦ 52. Disadvantages of File systems to store data is: 53. Which is the central component of the DBMS software that can also be termed as the database control system? 54. Data are stored inâ€¦â€¦â€¦â€¦â€¦â€¦as database: 55. Transaction is an action used to perform some manipulation on data stored in theâ€¦â€¦â€¦â€¦â€¦â€¦ 56. Which is stored information about description of data in the database: 57. In an Entity-Relationship Diagram Rectangles represents 58. DBA stands for: 59. Which is the person responsible for overall control f the database system: 60. â€¦â€¦â€¦... is a translates into low-level instruction that a query processor understands: MCQ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers on Database Management System - DBMS Database Management System - DBMS Trivia Questions and Answers PDF Database Management System - DBMS Question and Answer USA - United States of America Canada United Kingdom Australia New Zealand South America Brazil Portugal Netherland South Africa Ethiopia Zambia Singapore Malaysia India China UAE - Saudi Arabia Qatar Oman Kuwait Bahrain Dubai Israil England Scotland Norway Ireland Denmark France Spain Poland and many more....
The Treasure Chest is updated several times a year to feature different materials housed in the Special Collection department. Among the things people have done to decorate books over the years, putting clasps on them is one of the more uncommon today, but historically was pretty popular. Clasps made sense in the beginning. Books were made from vellum, a dried animal skin, which reacted poorly to changes in humidity. As it dried out, vellum would warp and wrinkle. Heavy clasps on books helped keep them closed while the vellum pages shifted and protected the books from splaying wide open. Or at least, that's one theory. The truth is, we'll probably never know exactly why people stuck clasps on books in the beginning, but clasps were quite popular. Once paper became the primary material for book pages, replacing vellum, the clasps were used to relieve strain on the binding and helped hold the book closed. In England and France, the clasp was on the cover and the catch on the back, but in the rest of Europe the positions were reversed. Since books were stacked up, rather than placed on shelves at the time, the clasps didn't pose a problem. When people began shelving books side by side, as we do today, the problems with clasps began. Not only did clasps rub and dig into neighboring books, often damaging them, but they couldn't be seen and the pressure from the surrounding books on the shelves was usually enough to keep books closed, rendering clasps obsolete. In the 17th century, clasps were falling out of fashion. By the 18th century, they were practically non-existent, except on very large books. By the days of the Civil War, clasps were entirely decorative, their original purpose long forgotten. Clasps can be seen on religious books, diaries, and sometimes on photo albums today, mostly because they look pretty, but never on a popular novel or text book. Arndt, Johann. Postille: das ist, Geist-reiche Erklarung der Evangelischen Texte durchs gantze Jahr, aufs alle Sonn-hohe und andere fest- und Apostel-Tage, sampt einer durchgehenden Betrachtung über die gantze Passions-Historie. Franckfurt: Verlegt von Joh. David Zunners, sel. Erben und J.A. Jungen, 1713. Carter, John. ABC for Book-Collectors. New York: Alfred A. Knopf, 1970. Curry, JLM. Photograph Album. SC Collection Number: SC 186 Manly, Basil, and B. Manly. The Baptist Psalmody: A Selection of Hymns for the Worship of God. Philadelphia: J.B. Lippincott, 1870.
Army worms are light brown to dark tan, mostly hairless Caterpillars (Moth larva) with yellow or brown stripes that run the length of their 1½ to 2-inch long bodies. Caterpillars are the larvae of moths and butterflies. Caterpillars can be smooth, hairy or spiky. Cutworms are large, up to 2-inch long, hairless caterpillars, the larvae of night-flying moths. Cut worms are a major pest to vegetable gardens, flowers and lawns in the United States. They curl into a "C" shape when disturbed.
, Research Paper The Life and Legend of Howard Hughes Throughout the 20th century, it has been the media’s job to pinpoint what events and people would prove to be an effective story. This was certainly the case for Howard R. Hughes. Son to the wealthy Howard Hughes Sr., Howard became the interest of the American people and newspapers for most of his life. Being deemed one of the most famous men of the mid-20th century was greatly attributed to Hughes’s skills as an industrialist, aviator, and motion-picture producer combined with his enormous wealth, intellect, and achievement. The media thrived on Howard’s unusual and sometimes scandalous life, especially in his later years when newspapers would frequently front large amounts of money to get stories on Hughes. Howard was also associated with what has been called one of the greatest publishing hoaxes in history. Howard Hughes Sr., commonly known as Big Howard, was a graduate of the Harvard School of Law, yet never once appeared before a court of law. Big Howard spent the first 36 years of his life chasing money across the Texas plains, as a wildcatter and a speculator in oil leases, working hard enough and earning just enough to move on to another, hopefully more fortunate gamble. In the year of his marriage, Big Howard sold leases on land that proved to have $50,000 in oil beneath it. He promptly took his new wife to Europe for a honeymoon, and returned exactly $50,000 poorer. In 1908, Big Howard turned his ingenuity and his hobby to tinker into good fortune. Current drilling technology was unable to penetrate the thick rock of southwest Texas and oilmen could only extract the surface layers of oil, unable to tap the vast resources that lay far below. Big Howard came up with the idea for a rolling bit, with 166 cutting edges and invented a method to keep the bit lubricated as it tore away at the rock. Later that year, Big Howard produced a model and went into business with his leasing partner, Walter B. Sharp, forming the Sharp-Hughes Tool Company. Rather than sell the bits to oil drillers, Hughes and Sharp decided to lease the bits out on a job basis, for the tidy sum of $30,000 per well. With no competitor able to duplicate this new technology, Sharp- Hughes Tool possessed a profitable monopoly over oil extraction. So quickly was the invention successful that in late 1908, the partners built a factory on a seventy-acre site east of Houston. On 1915, Sharp passed away and Big Howard purchased his shares in the corporation, thus becoming the sole owner. Cash flowed freely into and back out of Sharp-Hughes Tool. Big Howard became a first class socialite, and began to spend increasing amounts of time and money on parties, automobile racing and travel. One of his amusements was to charter a railroad car, fill it with friends, and conduct a rolling party between Texas and California. In the spring of 1921, Mrs. Hughes past away and Big Howard died as abruptly as his wife, willing his three- fourths of his estate to his only son, Howard Robard Hughes. Big Howard left an estate appraised for tax purposed at $871,518. As a less attractive part of his legacy, he left behind $258,000 in unpaid bills, including $2,758 to Brook Brothers Clothiers, $5,502 to Cartier’s in New York, and $3,500 for a grand piano. Howard Hughes Jr. was born on Christmas Eve, 1906 in Houston, Texas. He was commonly known as Sonny, or Little Howard, despite the fact that he was 6’3” by the age of 16. Hughes was the student of 7 different schools, of which he graduated from none, excelling only in mathematics. As a young man, Hughes had a penchant for all things mechanical and was known to spend hours tinkering on various different devices. Little Howard had only one friend, the son his father’s business partner, Dudley Sharp. At the age of 6, Howard Hughes Sr. presented his son with the gift of a workshop, where his son could always be found playing with various bits of wires and pieces of metal. At the age of 11, Little Howard built his own ham radio, and at the age of 13, when he refused the gift of a motorcycle, Hughes built one for himself, taking parts from his father’s steam car. As a graduate of Harvard, Big Howard sought his son to have the same education, and sent his son to boarding school in Massachusetts in fall of 1919. After one year had passed it became apparent that Sonny was not going to succeed in grooming school. Big Howard traveled across the country to collect his son, and they attended a boat race on the way home. After losing a bet to his son on the outcome of the race, Big Howard was forced to grant him one wish. That summer, Sonny took flying lessons with various crop dusters against the wishes of both of his parents. It was here that Hughes would develop his love of aviation. In 1921, oil drilling and prospecting took off in California, and Hughes Sr. relocated to Hollywood, and took his son with him. After a generous donation to the California Institute of Technology, Sonny was able to attend mathematics and engineering courses. In the fall of 1923, Mrs. Hughes passed away, and a little over a year later in January of 1924, Big Howard passed as well. At the age of 17, it would seem that Hughes was not prepared to enter the world of adulthood, but he would quickly prove otherwise. Sonny was the inheritor of 75% of Hughes Tool, of which he would be granted control at the age of 21. Eager to take responsibility of his own affairs, Hughes appeared before a Texas judge to appeal the legal guidelines set forth in his father’s will. Against the advice of Little Howard’s remaining family, the judge granted Hughes his wish and a great deal of wealth and power was put into a young man’s hands. Howard took the helm of Hughes Tool at the age of eighteen. Fully aware that he was unable of managing a multi-million dollar firm, he set out to find solid management. Hughes found it two months later in Noah Dietrich, an out of work accountant. Before hiring Dietrich, Hughes insisted that they go on a seven-day train ride. Hughes never mentioned one detail about the business over the seven-day period, and announced to Dietrich upon their return that he was hired. Dietrich managed Hughes’ business affairs and Hughes Tool for the next thirty years. In 1925, an old friend of Big Howard approached Hughes Jr. to help him finance a film project that he was working on. Hughes agreed on the condition that he be allowed on the set of the film, and be given access to everyone working on the film, so that he might learn about the process himself. An agreement was made and Howard Hughes moved back to Hollywood. Hughes spent all of his time on the set of Swell Hogan, constantly questioning the cameramen, insisting that he must look through the lens before each shot was taken. Due mostly to his lack of film knowledge, every scene was shot twice, and production costs quickly doubled to $80,000. On one occasion, Hughes was discovered by the night watchman surrounded by neat groups of bits and pieces of a film projector. When asked what he was doing, Hughes replied that if he were going to be in the movie business, he would need to know how everything worked, down to the projectors themselves. By dawn the next day the projector was back in order, and Hughes was back on the set of Swell Hogan. Dollars were not of concern to Hughes as the cash flowed freely out of Hughes Tool. In early 1926, Hughes bought controlling shares in a chain of 125 theaters, and 70 percent interest in Multi-Color, a corporation developing color motion picture film. Swell Hogan was finished by mid-1926, and failed miserably in its first screening. Hughes hired the best producers and editors in Hollywood, but the film could not be salvaged. Hughes placed the film on a shelf and bought his friend a new car. All of Hughes’ ventures were financed by Hughes Tool, of which Hughes’ remaining family was 25% owners. Distraught with his losses on Swell Hogan, Hughes’ family phoned and warned him of the dangers of show business. Enraged at himself and his failures, Hughes bought the remaining shares of Hughes Tool at twice their value and turned to successful director Lewis Milestone to work on future movie projects. Hughes and Milestone churned out three movies in two years, including Everybody’s Acting, The Racket, and Two Arabian Knights, the last of which won an Academy Award for best comedy in 1927. Invigorated with his film success, Hughes set out to make a film on his own based on a subject that was near to his heart: aviation. The script for Hell’s Angels came from collaboration between Hughes and two screenwriters, and was based on two young British pilots competing for the affection of an English society girl. Written, directed and produced by Hughes, Hell’s Angels was to be the greatest motion picture ever made. Hughes set out to do just that, spending $553,000 to buy and re-condition 87 WWI fighters and bombers, and another $400,000 to rent or build airfields in the Los Angeles area. Hughes needed a Zeppelin to burn and bought one. Needing an army to fight a ground battle, he hired 1,700 extras at $200 a week each. His attention to detail was immaculate. If the scene called for a rainy night, Hughes would require the actors to be on call until it rained at night, and force them to stay awake all night in the rain. The director, Hughes, would demand re-take after re-take of scenes, often because of his own flaws. Hughes’ attention to detail on the ground was nothing compared to that of the air. The film called for airplane battles in cloudy skies, and for once, Hughes quickly learned that one can’t buy clouds. He began to rise early, or stay up all night to watch for an opportune dawn. If the sun rose over Southern California, 40 or more airplanes would take off and seek out cloudy skies. When the weather predicted clouds miles away, Hughes, the pilots, and the fleet of planes would travel in hopes of the proper backdrop. Some days, everyone would get paid just to stand around. Many months in production, Hell’s Angels seemed to be drawing to a close, when Al Jolson’s The Jazz Singer brought an audible revolution to Hollywood. Sound became the standard by which pictures were judged and Hughes’ film lacked just one thing: sound. The film, at length, edited, cut and fitted with titles, was given an unannounced preview in a small L.A. theater. The response from the audience was clear; the 2 million-dollar silent picture was not good enough. Refusing to quit, Hughes set to work on Hell’s Angels anew. The flight scenes were easy enough to fix, the sound could be dubbed in, but the scenes in which the actors were to speak would have to be shot all over again. The first task was to write a new screenplay. Hughes insisted that in a silent picture actors could get away with mouthing their words, but in a talking picture they would have to make sense. He also demanded that the cast be completely overhauled out of fear that one individual might not sound good reading his lines. Production continued through the great depression, and in May of 1930 the film was completed. Hughes had shot 3,000,000 feet of film, of which only 1% was used in the final production, and spent almost 4 million dollars. The film opened to pandemonium in Los Angeles. Despite terrible reviews, the public went wild for Hell’s Angels. The film set box office records in every theater that it played, and went on to appear on screens for over 20 years throughout the world. In the end, it brought in just over eight million dollars, roughly twice Hughes’s investment. Bored with the movies and having proven himself, it was time for Hughes to move on to something more exciting. In the summer of 1932, Howard Hughes took a job with American Airlines under the name Charles Howard. His salary was $250 a week, an excellent wage during the great depression (unless you’re already a millionaire.) Hughes masqueraded in this position for two months, carrying baggage, talking to passengers and working as a co-pilot for the commercial airline. In the late summer of 1932, Hughes left American Airlines and bought himself a seaplane. He hired Glen Odekirk to customize the plane to Hughes’ acute specifications. One day the two argued for three hours about the proper placement of three screws in a strip of metal. Hughes wanted to fly cross-country in his seaplane, and eventually hired Odekirk as his co-pilot. For the next 18 months the two would fly around the country, stopping at Hughes’ whims and Howard would often disappear unannounced for days, weeks or months, only to return to Odekirk and his seaplane. On one such disappearance, Hughes ventured to Europe, returning with a 320 foot yacht and a Boeing P-12 Army Air Corps pursuit plane. Hughes decided to race his plane in Miami, and set Odekirk to work, tinkering with the plane in a vain attempt to make the plane faster. Hughes was so demanding that he would force Odekirk to make adjustments the mechanic knew would not work. In exasperation, Odekirk suggested that Hughes build his own plane from scratch, and after Hughes won the race, the billionaire spent the next two years building a plane that could win any race. Hughes and Odekirk returned to Los Angeles, where Howard hired Dick Palmer, a young Cal. Tech. Engineer known for his radical ideas. They set up shop just outside L. A. in a secret hangar where the three would work days and nights on end. The project was called H-1 (Hughes-1) and was the most progressive airplane in the world. The plane introduced the retractable landing gear, and pioneered other aeronautic advances such as countersunk screws and flat rivets to reduce wind resistance. The H-1 made its first appearance in September 1935 as Hughes announced that he would break the world record for airspeed in his new plane. Hughes insisted that he be the first to fly the plane, no matter how dangerous, and that the first flight be the one for which the record would be tested, even though no one knew how the plane would perform or if it would fly at all. The record to be broken was 314.32 miles per hour, held by Raymond Delmotte of France. The test called for an average of successive trials, not less than four. After five passes, Hughes averaged a speed of 352.39 mile per hour, easily passing Delmottes’ record. The next morning Howard Hughes moved from the entertainment pages of the nation’s newspapers to the front pages. He had flown faster than any other man, in an airplane of his own design, and won the record for the United States. America did not know what to do with Howard Hughes, the millionaire playboy who was known to aeronautical engineers as colleague, amongst pilots, a gritty legend and to Hollywood, a film genius. In addition to his many achievements, Hughes was known to his friends and his acquaintances as a person of bizarre habits and personal tics. There were numerous causes for Hughes’s increasingly strange behavior. From an early age he was quite deaf and could not hear conversations around him, yet he told few people of his disability. He conducted much of his business on the telephone because he could hear better using it. As a young man, Hughes evidently contracted syphilis, and in his later years he was plagued with neurosyphilis, which is marked by a degeneration of brain cells that can lead to paranoia and other symptoms. He surrounded himself with aides that he trusted, a group of seven Mormons which never left Hughes’ side (Howard believed Mormons were more trustworthy) and insisted that nay item handed to Hughes be covered by a Kleenex. In addition, as a test pilot Hughes was involved in numerous plane crashes that some researchers presume resulted in brain injury. The most serious accident occurred in 1946 when an XF-11 reconnaissance plane he was testing for the Air Force crashed, leaving him with massive injuries that caused him pain for the rest of his life. Hughes, who eschewed alcohol and tobacco, was forced to take medications to alleviate his pain. An addiction to codeine, a prescribed painkiller made from opium, began at this time and continued for the remainder of his life. Finally, but perhaps most important in understanding Hughes’s inability to live a normal life, he became increasingly trapped by what medical professionals today understand was obsessive-compulsive disorder. Many of Hughes’s biographers believe that his mother suffered from the same disease. This mental disorder can cause ritualistic behavior and unusual habits. For example, Hughes became obsessed with germs and cleanliness. In fact, the press reported that Hughes was so fearful of germs that he walked around in Kleenex boxes instead of shoes and insisted that any item be handed to him covered by a Kleenex. The disease went undiagnosed in his lifetime. In the early 1960’s Hughes hired an ex-FBI agent, Robert Maheu, as his right hand man. Hughes knew that Maheu had been involved in many cloak and dagger activities with the FBI and CIA, including an assassination attempt on Cuba’s Fidel Castro. At the time there were several dozen subpoenas for Hughes, including Federal, state and local tax evasion charges. In fact, later Hughes boasted that he never paid a dollar of income tax in his lifetime. Hughes brought Maheu on board to hide him from the public eye and to protect against those who wished to bring Hughes into court. In 1966, Maheu moved Hughes to the Desert Inn, located in Las Vegas, by train in the first hours of the morning. No one was allowed in the hotel lobby upon Hughes’ arrival. He moved into the penthouse on the fifteenth floor. Six months had passed and hotel management wanted Hughes out. He was occupying the floor of the hotel that had the most luxurious suites, and casino profits don’t come form room rent, but from high rollers and high rollers demand the best accommodations. Hughes instructed Maheu to inquire about the price of the hotel, and ownership humorously suggested $14 million, almost twice what the casino was worth. Hughes paid the next day and went into the gambling business. Howard later acquired the Sands, the Frontier, the Castaway, and the tiny Silver Slipper. Hughes told Maheu to buy the silver Slipper because its well-lit rotating marquee was an annoyance to Hughes when it shined through his window. After spending several years in Las Vegas, the pressure form legal actions became too great. Hughes re-located to the Bahamas on Maheu’s suggestion. Eighteen months later, the press reported that Hughes had died on an airplane en-route to Texas from heart failure. Hughes had not been publicly seen or photographed for twenty years.
“Life is in the transitions as much as in the terms connected; often, indeed, it seems to be there more emphatically, as if our spurts and sallies forward were the real firing-line of the battle, were like the thin line of flame advancing across the dry autumnal field which the farmer proceeds to burn.” --William James, “A World of Pure Experience” (1904) One hundred years after William James’s death, the Houghton Library, drawing upon its vast archive of James material, looks back at transitional moments of his life: his vocational dilemmas, spiritual crises, professional paths, and brave philosophical sallies forward. In these transitions, we can see the “plural facts” of James’s experiences, his public and private battles, and elements of what he called the “mosaic philosophy” of radical empiricism, pragmatism, and pluralism. William James was born in New York City in 1842, the first child of Henry and Mary James. He had four siblings: Henry, Jr. (b. 1843), who became an internationally-lauded writer; Garth Wilkinson (b. 1845); Robertson (b. 1846); and Alice (b. 1848), noted as a diarist. The James children had a peripatetic education in America and Europe, depending on their father’s quirky educational views, sometimes attending schools, sometimes tutored at home. The family lived for a time in Newport, Rhode Island and finally settled in Cambridge, Massachusetts. When William James died in August 1910, he had attained international prominence as the founder of American psychology and as a philosopher. He could look back on a long and successful career as a Harvard professor. He was a husband and father. These roles were not inevitable. He might have been an artist, like his contemporaries John Singer Sargent and William Hunt. He might have practiced medicine; or followed in the footsteps of his teacher Jeffries Wyman and devoted himself to physiology; or joined the ranks of eminent nineteenth-century naturalists, such as Louis Agassiz. When he first took a teaching position at Harvard, he had no intention of making college teaching a career, and even when he started down that path, he might easily have ended up at Johns Hopkins, where he once coveted a position. William James. Notman Studio, photographer. Photograph, undated. *MS Am 2955 (63) Purchase, Amy Lowell Trust. Louis J. Appell Jr. Fund for British Civilization in the Harvard College Library; James Duncan Phillips fund; and the Charles Warren fund. James’s life was punctuated by decisive moments when he might have taken one path or another; when, as he once told Alice Howe Gibbens during their protracted courtship, he had to decide on his vote for the kind of world he wanted to create for himself, and for the kind of man he wanted to be. Sometimes, those moments did feel like a battle – against his father, who opposed his interest in art; against his own self-image as a sickly man; against rationalism, determinism, monism; against elitism and war-mongering. This exhibition reveals some of the intellectual tensions that gave rise to his most famous works: The Varieties of Religious Experience, Pragmatism, and A Pluralistic Universe. In his celebration of novelty, his warm tolerance of all manner of spiritual experience, his championing of multiple perspectives for apprehending reality, James stood apart from many of his contemporaries. He meant his ideas to offer a process of making sense of experience, of justifying decisions that take account of a thinker’s desires and needs, and of accounting for one’s own presence in the world. An individual’s philosophy, James wrote, “is itself an intimate part of the universe, and may be a part momentous enough to give a different turn to what the other parts signify.” Now, in the 21st century, James’s works endure, still vital, sympathetic, brilliant, and passionate. An exhibition such as this requires a number of people to make it happen. Thanks are due first, and foremost, to the James family, whose extraordinary generosity in donating William James’s library and papers to Harvard over the years has made not only this exhibition possible, but also ensured that William James’s legacy will endure. All material exhibited here, unless otherwise noted, is their gift. The William James Lecture Fund on Religious Experience at the Harvard Divinity School funded the research for the exhibition; my particular thanks to David Lamberth. Other Harvard archives lent material to complement the Houghton holdings: thanks to Robin McElheny of the Harvard University Archives; Jack Eckert of the Center for the History of Medicine, Countway Library, Harvard Medical School; and Connie Rinaldo and Robert Young of the Ernst Mayr Library of the Museum of Comparative Zoology for their assistance. Carie McGinnis, Mary Oey, and Susi Barbarossa of Houghton Library, and their colleagues at the Weissman Preservation Center, prepared and installed the items in the cases. For the web exhibition that expands on the items here in the cases, my thanks to Enrique Diaz, Leslie Morris, Heather Cole, and Taylor Ferracane for their help in bringing this exhibition to those who cannot travel to Cambridge. Dennis Marnon facilitated the publication of the essays about this exhibition published in the Harvard Library Bulletin. Leslie Morris, the curator of the James papers, did much behind-the-scenes work to help everything come together. --Linda Simon, curator; Professor of English, Skidmore College; General Editor of William James Studies; and author of Genuine Reality: A Life of William James (1998). “Life is in the transitions”: William James, 1842-1910, is complemented by “William James in His Times and Ours: Essays on the Occasion of the Centennial Exhibition at Houghton Library” in the Harvard Library Bulletin (Summer 2009). Essays by twelve leading intellectuals and scholars-- Drew Gilpin Faust, Susan Gunter, Edward Hoagland, David Lamberth, Louis Menand, Steven Pinker, David S. Reynolds, Michael James, Jean Strouse, Colm Tóibin, Gore Vidal, and Cornel West—think about key items in the exhibition from their own perspectives. Copies of the Bulletin are available for purchase at $15; orders should be addressed to Monique Duhaime, Houghton Library, Harvard University, Cambridge MA 02138.
We deem it our duty to call attention to the fact that our educational work will lose its moral foundation and the esteem of the natives, if the German government is not in a position to prevent the brutality with which the wives and children of slaughtered Armenians are treated in this place. The convoys which, on the departure of the exiles from their homes in Upper Armenia, consisted of 2,000–3,000 persons—men, women and children—arrive here in the south with a remnant of only two or three hundred survivors. The men are killed on the way, the women and children, excepting those of unattractive appearance and those who are quite old or quite young, are first abused by Turkish soldiers and officers, and then brought into Turkish or Kurd villages, where they have to go over to Islam. As regards the remnant of the caravans, every effort is made to reduce them by hunger and thirst. Even when a river is passed, those who are dying of thirst are not permitted to drink. As their only food a small quantity of flour is strewn on their hands as a daily ration; this they greedily lick off, but its only effect is to delay death from starvation for a little while longer. “Opposite to the German Technical School at Aleppo in which we do our work as teachers, a remnant of some of these convoys is lying in one of the hans; there are about 400 emaciated forms; about 100 boys and girls, from five to seven years old, are among them. Most of them are suffering from typhoid and dysentery. On entering the yard one has the impression of coming into a lunatic asylum. When food is brought to them, one notices that they have lost the habit of eating. The stomach, weakened by months of starvation, has ceased to be able to receive food. Any bread that is given to them is laid aside with an air of indifference. They just lie there quietly, waiting for death. “How can we teachers read German fairy tales with our pupils, or, indeed, the story of the Good Samaritan in the Bible? How can we ask them to decline and conjugate indifferent words, while round about in the neighbouring yards the starving brothers and sisters of our Armenian pupils are succumbing to a lingering death? In these circumstances our educational work flies in the face of all true morality and becomes a mockery of human feeling. “And those poor creatures who in their thousands have been driven through the town and the neighbouring districts into the desert; nearly all of them are women and children, and what becomes of them? They are driven on from place to place, until the thousands dwindle into hundreds and until the hundreds dwindle into insignificant remnants. And these remnants are again driven on until the last survivors have ceased to live. Then only the final goal of the migration has been reached. Then the wanderers have arrived at ‘the new homes assigned to the Armenians,’ as the newspapers express it. ‘Ta’alim el aleman’ (‘that is the teaching of the Germans’) says the simple Turk, when asked about the authors of these measures. The educated Muslims are convinced that, though the German people may disapprove of such horrors, the German Government is taking no steps to prevent them, out of consideration for its Turkish allies. Mohammedans of more refined feelings, Turks as well as Arabs, shake their heads disapprovingly; they do not even conceal their tears when, in the passage of a convoy of deported Armenians through the town, they see Turkish soldiers inflicting blows with heavy sticks on women in advanced pregnancy or dying persons who cannot drag themselves any further. They cannot imagine that their government has ordered these cruelties, and ascribe all excesses to the guilt of the Germans, who during the war are held to be the teachers of the Turks in all matters. Even the mullahs declare in the mosques that it was not the Sublime Porte but the German officers who had ordered the ill-treatment and annihilation of the Armenians. The things which in this place have been before everybody’s eyes during many months, must indeed remain a blot on Germany’s shield of honour in the memory of Oriental nations. Many educated persons, who do not wish to be obliged to give up their faith in the character of the Germans whom they have hitherto respected, explain the matter to themselves in the following manner: they say, ‘The German nation probably knows nothing of the horrible massacres which are on foot at the present time against the native Christians all over Turkey. How is it possible otherwise, having regard to the veracity of the German nation, that articles should appear in German papers showing complete ignorance of all these events, and only stating that some individual Armenians were deservedly shot by martial law as spies and traitors?’ Others say: ‘Perhaps the hands of the German government are tied by some convention regulating the limits of its competence, or intervention does not appear opportune at the present moment.’
Anthracnose of Shade Trees Sherman V. Thomson/Extension Plant Pathologist Scott C. Ockey/Plant Disease Diagnostician |Characteristic tissue chlorosis and brown necrotic lesions along the veins of Sycamore leaves.| Dark colored fungal reproductive bodies (Pycnidia) forms on woody tissue of trees infected with Anthracnose causing fungi. Pycnidia can often be found on affected twigs and branches. |Mature sycamore trees with severe anthracnose. Trees may be defoliated by mid to late summer depending on severity of infection.| Anthracnose of Shade Trees Anthracnose is a fungal disease common throughout Utah on Maple, Sycamore, Oak and Ash. Although in most years it does not cause significant damage, it can be very destructive during years when extended cool wet spring conditions occur. Consecutive years with conditions conducive to disease can seriously weaken trees and may cause death if the conditions persist and control measures are not implemented. The group of fungi that cause anthracnose produce spore bearing structures called acervuli. The acervuli erupt through the plant tissue and are evident as small black dots on twigs. The fungi that cause anthracnose are Kabatiella apocrypta in Maple, Apiognomonia veneta in Sycamore, A. quercina in Oak and A. errabunda in Ash. The first symptoms occur on leaves as small water soaked lesions. They are usually found along main veins of leaves, but can also occur between the veins. The spots enlarge and eventually turn tan, reddish-brown or black, depending on the species and cultivar of tree affected. Acervuli are then produced by the fungus in the necrotic tissue. Sycamore leaves can become infected as they emerge from buds resulting in blighting of the entire leaf cluster. Infections on twigs and branches initially appear as discolored depressed areas in the bark followed by splitting bark. Severe infections may even result in death of small branches. Cankers usually develop raised margins resulting from the healing process in the tree. Sycamore branch infections result in multiple lateral shoots called witches brooms. The fungi overwinter in fallen leaves, petioles, twigs or branches. Under cool moist spring conditions the fungi mature and produce spores that are dispersed by wind and rain. Spores that contact susceptible host tissue infect and grow throughout the adjacent tissue leading to the characteristic leaf spot symptoms. Cultural controls are only marginally effective for anthracnose and are mostly aimed at sanitation by reducing overwintering sites of the fungi. The effectiveness of sanitation is often minimal because there are many external sources of spores that are blown into the area. Cultural controls should be considered if the tree or adjacent trees have a history of anthracnose. Recommended cultural controls include: 1. Rake and destroy fallen leaves. 2. Prune out and destroy infected twigs and branches. 3. Maintain tree vigor with adequate water and fertilization. 4. Plant resistant cultivars. Sycamore cultivars Bloodgood, Columbia and Liberty are reported to be resistant. Check with your local nursery for resistance information regarding other tree species. It is usually not necessary to use chemicals to control anthracnose because the fungus only infects when wet conditions persist. Most trees can withstand occasional infections without any serious damage. However Chemical controls should be implemented in addition to the cultural controls when cool, wet spring weather occurs year after year. Chemical applications should begin at bud swell and continue at labeled rates and intervals during wet weather. Table 1 lists registered chemicals for control of anthracnose on Maple, Sycamore, Oak and Ash. Be sure to check the label for specific information about labeled uses and rates. Table 1 Registered products as of January 2000. |Banner MAXX||Maple||5 to 8 fl oz/100gal water||24 hour re-entry| |Sycamore||6 to 8 fl oz/100gal water||24 hour re-entry| |Oak||16 oz/100gal water||Test on small portion of tree before complete application. 24 hour re-entry.| |Champ Formula 2||Sycamore||1.3 to 2 pints/Acre||24 hour re-entry| |Cleary's 3336 WP||Maple||12 to 16 oz/100 gal water||12 hour re-entry| |Sycamore||12 to 16 oz/100 gal water||Apply resistance management strategies. Alternate fungicides. 12 hour re-entry| |Oak||12 to 16 oz/100 gal water||12 hour re-entry| |Ash||12 to 16 oz/100 gal water||12 hour re-entry| |Daconil Weather Stik||Maple||1.4 pints/100 gal water||Daconil 12.5% can be used on Sycamore and Ash in home gardens. 48 hour re-entry.| |Fore (80%mancozeb)||Maple||1.5 lb/100 gal water||24 hour re-entry| |Kocide DF||Sycamore||2 to 3 lb/Acre||24 hour re-entry| |Nu-Cop 50DF||Sycamore||2 to 3 lb/100 gal water||24 hour re-entry| |Bayleton||Consult current label for this fungicide before use.| Precautionary Statement: All pesticides have benefits and risks, however following the label will maximize the benefits and reduce risks. Pay attention to the directions for use and follow precautionary statements. Pesticide labels are considered legal documents containing instructions and limitations. Inconsistent use of the product or disregarding the label is a violation of both federal and state laws. The pesticide applicator is legally responsible for proper use. This publication is issued in furtherance of Cooperative Extension work. Acts of May 8 and June 30, 1914, in cooperation with the U.S. Department of Agriculture, Vice President for Extension and Agriculture, Utah State University.
2016 Claim: Wait! What?! Study: There is so much global warming that it is slowing the rise of sea levels – ‘Is there anything global warming can’t do? Now it seems that there is so much global warming that it is slowing the rise of sea levels.’ Climate Astrology: ‘Global Warming’ commands sea level rise Increases…& sea level rise slowdown: NASA discovers that ‘global warming’ is slowing and not increasing sea level rise – NASA study claim: ‘Because the Earth has become more parched, partly because humans are pumping out more ground water, the rising oceans are being absorbed by lakes, rivers, and underground acquirers, much like a sponge absorbs water. An extra 3.2 trillion tons of water has thus been soaked up and stored and is not pouring into the streets of coastal cities.’ NASA Study Concludes ‘Global Warming’ Is Actually Slowing Sea Level Rise – A new NASA study concludes global warming increases the amount of water stored underground which, in turn, slows the rate of sea level rise. At a time when scientists are worried about accelerating sea level rise, NASA scientist John Reager and his colleagues found an extra 3,200 gigatons of water was being stored by parched landscapes from 2002 to 2014, slowing sea level rise by 15 percent. Excerpt: Florida State University Geology Professor William Tanner: “Tanner plotted 4000 years of sea-level data on 5,000 years of climatological data published in last year’s Encyclopedia of Climatology and found some interesting correlations. Every time the climate warmed a couple of degrees, the sea level went down. Every time the climate cooled a couple of degrees, the sea level went up. This happened four times, each cycle taking about 100 years, and spaced about 900 years apart.” “He says sea level rise has been about six inches over the past century, and he now expects that to slow down and even reverse itself if humans continue warming the Earth.” “We’ve made the assumption — and it’s logical — that if things get warm, the glaciers get warm, the glaciers are going to melt,” Tanner said. “But that’s not what these two curves show, no matter how logical it may be. Everybody’s been depending on logic without much data.” “Tanner says he believes that when the climate warms just a little, it causes more evaporation from the oceans and they go down. He sees two separate systems at work — a big one in which the climate gets every warm or very cold and the oceans rise or fall dramatically, and a small system in which minor changes in temperature cause the opposite reactions.” “My colleagues here to whom I have presented it in detail think it’s reasonable and probably correct.” More on Geologist Dr. William F. Tanner here. – William F. Tanner (1917-2000) Geologist – Of Tallahassee, Florida died on April 9, 2000. Tanner was an ASA fellow and a member of ASA’s Affil. of Christian Geologists. A prof. of geology at Florida State U. with emphasis on sedimentology, he was born in Milledgeville, Georgia in 1917. He holds a B.A. from Baylor University, an M.A. from Texas Technological College, and a Ph.D. from Oklahoma University, all in Geology. He has served as an Instructor at Oklahoma University, a visiting Professor of Geology at Florida State University, and Associate Professor and Professor of Geology at Florida State University. Since 1974 he has been Regents Professor. He has had geological experience in much of the U.S., mostly in the Southeast, Southwest, and Rocky Mountain areas,- maritime eastern Canada and Canadian Rockies,- Mexico, Panama, Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, Chile, Uruguay, various parts of Brazil, and Venezuela. His specialties within geology include sedimentology, sediment transport (including beach and river erosion), paleogeography and paleoclimatology, history of the atmosphere and petroleum geology. Dr. Tanner is Editor of “Coastal Research, ” Science Editor for the New Atlas of Florida, and Editor of six volumes on coastal sedimentology. He is the author of 275 technical papers. This picture of Boca Raton was in that issue of the paper. And this is what that beach looks like today. Nothing has changed. Background on sea level rise: 1977: ROSS ICE SHELF, Antarctica-A huge portion of the Antarctic ice mass appears to be collapsing into the sea, a catastrophe that could raise the levels of the oceans by almost 20 feet. “We’re seeing the West ice sheet on its way out,” said Richard Cameron of the National Science Foundation. “It seems to be doing something completely different than the east ice sheet. It has nothing to do with a warmer climate, just the dynamics of unstable ice.”…”We’re doing about the most we can do right now to study the possible collapse of the west ice sheet,” said Dr. Richard Cameron, NSF program manager for glaciology. “It has become an area of concern because we could be on the brink of a rise in sea levels.” SUCH A RAPID rise is not unprecedented. It may have caused the Great Deluge described in the Old Testament. Analysis of latest sea leel rise claims: Examination of the data from the paper, however, shows the range of proxy sea levels is approximately 10 meters, far too large to discern the tiny ~1.5 mm/yr sea level rise over the past 150 years. The authors instead assume from other published studies of tide gauge measurements that the ~1.5 mm/yr sea level rise over the past 150+ years began at that point in time. Other papers find sea levels rising only 1.1-1.3 mm/yr over the past 203 years, and without acceleration. Regardless, even the IPCC concedes that there was no significant anthropogenic influence on climate prior to 1950, thus man is not be responsible for sea level rise beginning 150-200 years ago, at the end of the Little Ice Age. The sea level rise over the past ~200 years shows no evidence of acceleration, which is necessary to assume a man-made influence. Sea level rise instead decelerated over the 20th century, decelerated 31% since 2002 and decelerated 44% since 2004 to less than 7 inches per century. There is no evidence of an acceleration of sea level rise, and therefore no evidence of any man-made effect on sea levels. Sea level rise is primarily a local phenomenon related to land subsidence, not CO2 levels. Therefore, areas with groundwater depletion and land subsidence have much higher rates of relative sea level rise, but this has absolutely nothing to do with man-made CO2.
How to become a better global citizen We all want to make the world a better place for ourselves and future generations. A happier, healthier and equal world is a good thing for all. Plus, the benefits of doing good things speak for themselves. According to studies, doing good for others can improve life satisfaction, happiness levels and mental and physical health. One study found that adults who volunteered about four hours a week significantly decreased their chances of developing high blood pressure. So, how can we extend this feel good factor on a global scale? How can we become a better global citizen? A global citizen is someone who has an awareness of the world and how human actions can impact on it. They’re curious about the environment, nature, human cultures, geology and economics, and how they all connect with each other. They also have a desire to positively contribute to communities to improve life for others. What is a global citizen? A global citizen is respectful of cultural diversity and human rights. They’re empathetic to causes and suffering around the world and feel responsible for their impact on it and making change. They see themselves as a citizen of the world, rather than a single country. They desire equality for all and consciously make fair choices and decisions. Read on to learn about the steps you can take to become a better global citizen. Make greener choices Recycling, reducing waste, energy saving, and water conservation all lessen the impact on the environment. Save energy by turning off lights, unplugging appliances when not in use and buying appliances and lights with good energy ratings and efficiency. Conserve water by installing a rainwater tank, water efficient shower heads and appliances. Reduce waste by using reusable containers, water and coffee cups. Avoid using plastic bags, straws and disposable items. Upcycle where possible or buy second hand and create a compost heap for scraps. Learn a new language Being able to speak another language is useful and rewarding in so many ways. But, when it comes to becoming a better global citizen, it’s one of the best. Learning a new language means that you gain an appreciation and insight into other cultures that you may previously not have had. You become more aware of culture differences, why they exist and the importance of respecting them. According to researchers, Hanh Thi Nguyen and Guy Kellogg, when students learn another language, they develop new ways of understanding culture and ways of thinking and behaving. Students can critically think about stereotypes of different cultures related to food, appearance and conversation styles. Volunteer to help out a local charity or one that works with overseas organisations. If you’re keen to take it a step further, hop on a plane and spend some time volunteering overseas. Seeing first-hand how your voluntary efforts are making a difference to others is a great feeling, as is connecting with those you’re helping. It’s also a good way of educating yourself on the issues that other countries may be facing. Organisations such as GVI andProjects Abroad organize volunteer projects in countries such as Africa, Latin America, Asia, Europe and Australasia. Volunteers have the opportunity to help out in conservation, education, and community projects. Travel as much as possible Travelling is one of the best ways to explore the globe, understand and experience different cultures and country challenges first hand, as well as meet new friends. Gaining a global perspective can help us reflect and appreciate what we have, and increased empathy for others is a key characteristic in becoming a better global citizen. Before travelling, think about what you’re really passionate about doing or discovering. Think local cuisine, local temples or going off the beaten track. Research if you can and connect with locals who can help. Sharing a common passion is a good way to see commonalities from a new viewpoint. Education is key Educating yourself about what’s going on in the world is a great way to become a better global citizen. With a multitude of sources available at our fingertips, learning is only ever a click away. Learn about different cultures online. Read blogs and news sites about different country’s politics, current affairs and cultures, and research local cultural community events or celebrations which you can attend. You could also use social media and communication to connect and develop friendships with people all over the world, so why not go ahead and give it a go?
10 REASONS SOME KIDS AREN’T READY FOR KINDERGARTEN - He Has a Late Birthday – Depending on when your child’s birthday is and where it falls in relation to the cut-off date for kindergarten enrollment in your school district, your child could potentially be one of the youngest members of his class and, as such, not quite ready for the rigors of school. Social readiness is also an important factor in determining kindergarten readiness. - She Didn’t Go to Preschool – Kindergarten has changed quite dramatically over the years, and is no longer dedicated to singing songs or taking naps. These days letter and color recognition, basic counting and even early mathematics and pre-reading skills are required to be considered ready for kindergarten. If your child didn’t attend preschool, she may not be quite ready for the demanding atmosphere of kindergarten. - He’s Developmentally Different – Some developmental differences begin to present themselves around the time a child would begin kindergarten, which is one of the reasons why some parents are surprised to find that their little one isn’t quite ready. If you suspect that your child is developmentally different, discussing your concerns with his doctor can help you determine what your next step should be. - She Was Born Prematurely – Premature babies can lag a bit behind their peers developmentally, even as late as kindergarten. According to a study by the University of Nottingham published in the New England Journal of Medicine, up to 52% of prematurely born children experienced developmental delays at age two, with many prematurity-related problems not showing up until the age of five. - He Struggles With Behavioral Problems – Kids who have difficulty controlling their behavior may struggle to adhere to the rules of a kindergarten classroom, especially if he has little experience with a classroom setting. Your child’s behavioral differences can affect his kindergarten readiness and may require a bit of special attention. - She Has a Physical Disability – Public schools are required by Federal law to make allowances for children with special needs, but a physically disabled child may simply not be ready for the relatively demanding schedule of kindergarten when other children her age are starting school. - He Has Speech Problems – One of the areas in which many kindergarten screening tests look for kindergarten readiness is in regards to verbal skills and speech ability. A child who struggles to speak, isn’t verbal at all or has a severe speech impediment may require a bit of extra time before he starts school with his peers. - She Isn’t Fully Potty Trained – Legally, public school districts are not allowed to turn away a student based on their lack of potty training. Still, the humiliation that can accompany regular accidents in front of her classmates may keep your child from thriving. If she’s not potty trained and kindergarten enrollment is approaching, you may need to consult with a pediatrician for advice. - He Can’t Focus On a Given Task – Some kids simply can’t focus on a task they’ve been given. Whether it’s due to attention deficit disorder or developmental differences, a child who isn’t able to focus at all may require special attention in order to thrive in kindergarten. - She Suffers From Severe Separation Anxiety – Most kids who suffer from separation anxiety during the first few days of kindergarten learn to overcome it. An incapability to shake separation anxiety or severe emotional distress can point to more complicated emotional differences, however, which may need to be evaluated by a medical professional before she attends school. It’s important to remember that at such a young age, most children are developing at their own pace and may not reach milestones at the same time as their peers. Delayed kindergarten readiness isn’t always an indicator of developmental differences that will set your child apart throughout his academic career. Remember how important it is to be patient with your child and help him reach developmental milestones at his own pace.
The disease where the blood vessels in the brain swell up is known as aneurysm. This is nothing but swelling up of the wall of the affected blood vessel and is usually caused by a weak spot in the vessel that goes out of shape with the constant pressure exerted by the pumping of blood. Usually an aneurysm develops at a region where the blood vessel tends to branch out into two because this region is particularly vulnerable. Although an aneurysm can develop anywhere in the body, the most common place of development is the blood vessels of the brain or the heart. When the blood vessels in the brain swell up abnormally, it is known as cerebral aneurysm. This disease is quite fatal as death can occur in minutes of affected blood vessel rupturing. Usually when cerebral aneurysm first occurs, it is shaped like a small grape that is attached to the blood vessel by means of a stalk. The small bulge is filled with blood and that is why it is often referred to as berry or saccular aneurysm. Sometimes, the swelling in the blood vessel in the brain can be multiple and they all occur together in a cluster. Some symptoms of brain aneurysm include severe headache that comes on suddenly and fast, pain in the neck accompanied by stiffness, paralysis, seizures, problems with the vision and having difficulty talking. It has been noticed that brain aneurysm is more common in the elderly. Some causes of cerebral aneurysm are as follows: - Weak blood vessel which could be a birth defect - High blood pressure, also known as hypertension that is prevalent for years leading to damage of the blood vessels. - Fatty deposits or plaque formation on the walls of the blood vessel leading them to become weak. This condition is known as arthrosclerosis. - Polycystic kidney disease can lead to brain aneurysm. - Inheriting certain diseases that cause the blood vessels to become weak. Cerebral aneurysm can lead to a lot of complications like bleeding in the brain tissue surrounding the ruptured blood vessel, water in the brain (hydrocephalus), paralysis, stroke, epilepsy and of course, sudden death. Usually when a person is detected with cerebral aneurysm, the doctor will try to surgically repair the damage. In addition, the person will be advised bed rest and put on medication to help pain and the seizures. Unfortunately more than half the people die the first day of the cerebral aneurysm or within the next three months. The other half invariably have to live the rest of their lives with disabilities. More Articles :
A common component of the property buying process in which a potential buyer (for a fee) reserves the right to buy the property for a specific period of time. A reservation is a legal agreement between a buyer and seller that creates a contract to purchase land or property. It is an option that allows the buyer to reserve the right to buy a piece of land or property at an agreed price within an agreed time frame, typically around 28 days. The reservation fee is paid upfront, securing the future purchase at a fixed price. During this period, the buyer can conduct further investigations on the property, arrange financing options, and prepare for completion. If completion does not happen within the given timeframe, the reservation and any deposit paid by the buyer will be forfeited. Once completion has taken place, ownership of the land or property will transfer to the purchaser, and they will become responsible for all associated costs and responsibilities related to owning it. The process for reserving a property for potential buyers involves the following: During the reservation period, the buyer conducts due diligence and obtains financing, and can proceed with the purchase by completing legal and financial requirements. If they do not move, the reservation fee may be forfeited or refunded according to the terms of the reservation agreement. Upon completion of the purchase, the property is transferred to the buyer. Reserving a property during the buying process can serve several purposes. It can secure the right to purchase, provide time for due diligence, ensure property availability, facilitate planning and decision-making, create a sense of commitment between the parties, and lock in price or terms. This can be useful in competitive markets where properties are in high demand and prevent other potential buyers from purchasing the property during the reservation period. The fee associated with reserving a property in the context of real estate is typically referred to as a "reservation fee" or "booking fee." This fee is paid by the potential buyer to the seller or developer as a form of consideration for securing the right to purchase the property during the reservation period. The amount of the reservation fee can vary depending on factors, such as the location, market conditions, and the value of the property. In some cases, the reservation fee may be a fixed amount agreed upon between the parties, while in other cases, it may be a percentage of the property's purchase price. It's essential to note that the reservation fee is typically non-refundable. If the potential buyer decides not to proceed with the purchase within the reservation period, the fee may be forfeited to the seller or developer. Reserving a property in the context of real estate typically involves a potential buyer paying a fee to the seller or developer in exchange for the exclusive right to purchase the property for a specific period. This reservation period is agreed upon in a contract between the parties, which is a legally binding contract. When a potential buyer reserves a property, it typically means that the seller or developer agrees not to sell the property to any other buyer during the reservation period. This gives the potential buyer the right to purchase the property during the reserved period without the risk of losing the property to other buyers. The reservation agreement typically outlines the terms and conditions of the reservation, including the duration of the reservation period, the amount and nature of the reservation fee, and any other terms or requirements the parties have agreed upon. Making a reservation can be smart for buyers interested in purchasing property in a competitive market. It allows them to secure the property they want, negotiate a better price, and reduce their financial risk. However, buyers need to do their due diligence before making a reservation to ensure that they are making an informed decision and that the property meets their needs and expectations.
The PHA emphasises the importance of keeping warm in order to stay healthy. Evidence suggests that long periods of extremely low temperatures can lead to an increased risk of adverse health effects such as increased respiratory disease, heart attacks and stroke. The elderly are particularly vulnerable. Excessive cold can also cause a rise in blood pressure, lowered resistance to infections and worsening of symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis. So the public are being advised to take some basic steps to look after themselves and their elderly relatives and neighbours over the coming days. This advice is as follows: - Wear several thin layers of clothing as they will keep you warmer than one thick layer. - When inside keeping moving and try not to sit still for more than one hour at a time as activity generates body heat. - Eat well with frequent warm healthy meals and drinks – but avoid alcoholic drink as this can lower body temperature. Heating your home - When heating your home ensure open fires have guards in front of them, air vents are not blocked and additional heating appliances being used have been recently serviced and well maintained in view of the risks of carbon monoxide poisoning (for further advice see HSENI link below). When outside in cold weather - Only go outside into the cold if absolutely necessary and if you have to venture outside wear warm gloves, a hat and footwear with non-slip soles. - Take care on icy footpaths and consider using a walking stick to ensure you keep your balance. Finally the PHA advises that people check on their vulnerable and elderly neighbours who may not be able to get to shops to make sure they have everything they need to keep warm and keep healthy. Indeed, the Board and Agency remain indebted to the considerable and ongoing effort of people across the community who have a voluntary caring responsibility to others such as elderly dependent relatives, friends or neighbours. This effort is being discharged by countless people and is much valued for its ability to assist the wider health and social services at the present time. Useful web links Getting access to GPs and hospitals For anyone who takes ill or needs to see a doctor the position is as follows: GP practices throughout Northern Ireland remain open and continue to provide their normal daytime services. People should contact their practice in the normal manner for medical advice or for obtaining a prescription. However, they should also bear in mind that their GP services are very busy and if they can wait, they should do so. Similarly, the best treatment for colds and the flu is to stay at home, rest, drink plenty of fluids and use over-the-counter remedies to ease symptoms. GP out-of-hours providers are coping well at a time of year when there is seasonally a high demand for services, with an increase in calls from patients. People should nevertheless be patient, and should bear in mind that the GP out-of-hours service is for urgent calls that cannot wait until their own GP practice is next open. It is important that patients always remember to phone their GP out-of-hours service first, before attending, as this can often assist in avoiding an unnecessary journey. The aim is to ensure patients’ concerns are dealt with in the most appropriate way. For members of the public wishing to access GP out-of-hours services, the phone number will be available on the answering machine of their GP practice, in the telephone directory or on the website at www.gpoutofhours.hscni.net Hospital services are continuing to operate largely as normal, and people should continue to attend for appointments unless they have been formally advised by their hospital of a postponement. If anyone is unable to keep an appointment owing to the weather, it will be enormously helpful if they can notify the hospital in advance. More widely, people should remember not to attend a hospital accident and emergency department for a condition that is not urgent, as the prime function of these centres is to cater for people who are seriously ill and require immediate medical assistance. The Board and the Public Health Agency also wish to commend and thank the many health and social care staff who have been able to reach their work despite the adverse weather and who are contributing hugely to maintaining a wide range of services for the community. In particular, they are very grateful to the emergency services for helping a number of care staff to reach patients in snow-affected and isolated areas.
CURATOR’S CHOICE #6: SANDRA TUPPEN FROM THE BRITISH LIBRARY Sandra Tuppen, curator of Music Manuscripts at the British Library, explores some highlights from their digitised collection of music manuscripts, including those penned by the hand of Haydn, Handel, Purcell, and a very messy Beethoven. Ever since the earliest methods of notating music were devised, composers and scribes have written out music by hand – on vellum in the medieval period and subsequently on paper. (Only now is this beginning to change, with the advent of computer programs for music notation.) Even after the perfecting of music printing techniques in the 16th century, when music was printed using moveable type and later by engraving, and the burgeoning of a trade in music publishing, much music continued to be written out by hand and circulated in manuscript. Printing music was expensive, time-consuming and complex; copying out music by hand could be done relatively cheaply and quickly, especially when a few copies only of a particular composition were needed. In the 17th and 18th centuries, music was written out in manuscript for several purposes. These included the creation of ‘master copies’ from which further handwritten copies could be made when required, the provision of musicians’ parts for use in performance and the commercial and non-commercial dissemination of musical works. Many publishers of printed music also sold manuscript music. With musical genres for which the market in scores was likely to be small (opera, for example), producing manuscripts in small quantities was more cost-effective than setting up a print run. The British Library holds one of the finest collections of printed and manuscript music in the world. It encompasses music dating from the middle ages to the present and includes a large number of autograph music manuscripts (scores written out by the composers themselves). Among the autographs are scores of the great composers of the 17th to the 19th centuries, from Purcell, Bach and Handel to Beethoven and Schubert, and large collections of scores and other documents of 20th-century British composers, including Elgar, Delius, Britten, Tippett and Maxwell Davies. As is the case with ordinary handwriting, there is much that is distinctive about the way individual composers and scribes write music down, even though they all follow the same basic conventions for notating music. The ‘musical hand’ of an individual composer or scribe is often so distinctive that elements of it can be studied and, once identified as the ‘fingerprint’ of that particular individual, used to help authenticate other manuscript sources that are believed to have originated with the same individual. It can be used to identify anonymous pieces of music and correct earlier misattributions. Manuscript music comes in a variety of formats, depending on its intended use. Autograph music manuscripts can provide a tantalising glimpse of the composer at work and shed light on the creative process. The two examples above – both from 18th-century symphonies – are ‘fair copy’ manuscripts, in other words they are manuscripts written out by the composers themselves, but in a final, ‘tidy’ version suitable for use by the scribe, who would have had to copy out the individual parts needed by each of the players. Haydn probably completed his score shortly before the first performance of the symphony in 1791, in London. He made a mistake when writing the names of the instruments down the side, initially forgetting to include the oboes, but it is otherwise a model of clarity. The symphony of Sir William Herschel – astronomer and composer – is similarly clear, unlike the following example: Here, Beethoven – never a neat writer at the best of times – was sketching out ideas for his string quartet in one of the notebooks he carried around with him. He jotted down his ideas whenever he had an inspiration. Falling somewhere between Beethoven’s rough sketch and Herschel and Haydn’s fair copies in the creative process is the ‘working manuscript’, showing the composer still honing and finalising the work. In the following manuscript of music by Telemann, the composer has scratched out and altered some of the notes as well as removing one bar completely. As well as its great collection of autograph manuscripts, the British Library holds many scribal (i.e. copyists’) scores. Music copyists often worked closely with the composer, who would supervise their work, check it for errors and sometimes make corrections. The music of Handel takes a central place in the British Library’s collections, most notably in the Royal Music Library, the music collection of successive generations of the royal family, which was presented to the nation by Her Majesty the Queen in 1957. The collection includes 97 autograph manuscripts of Handel’s music, together with many of the manuscripts compiled by Handel’s trusted scribes. These scores are mostly ‘file copies’, rather than material that would have been used in performance. Much music, of course, is written out for very practical reasons – for use by professional or amateur musicians. Manuscript sources can not only reveal much about the music, but also provide evidence about the context in which it was heard. This little oblong manuscript is just the kind of book that an amateur musician would have carried around in his pocket and pulled out to play from, perhaps at the request of his friends. In fact it belonged to and was compiled by a 17th-century coal merchant, Thomas Britton, who loved music and set up one of the first series of concerts in England, in a narrow room above his shop in Clerkenwell, lit, according to his neighbour, by a window ‘no bigger than the bung-hole of a cask’. This music is intended for the recorder (known as the flute in the 17th century). As is the case today, much music was intended for use by amateur musicians at home. Compilation albums – both printed and manuscript – containing the most popular pieces of the day were a feature in many middle- and upper-class households. This drinking song for three voices, ‘Fill the bowle with Rosie Wine’, composed and in the hand of the 17th-century musician Henry Bowman, appears in a miscellaneous album of pieces compiled by Bowman, and owned by Katherine Sedley, daughter of Sir Charles Sedley, Baronet. Music was also performed in educational establishments. Edward Lowe, Oxford Professor of Music from the 1660s to early 1680s, organised weekly performances at the Music School and collected and copied much music for use in Oxford, including this song by Henry Lawes, ‘Come from the dungeon to the throne’, sung in the play The Royal Slave by William Cartwright. Cartwright’s play was performed by students of Christ Church, Oxford for Charles I in the 1630s. Much music was written for use in a liturgical setting, and the British Library’s 17th- and 18th-century music collections are rich in scores of anthems, service music and other religious pieces, particular from the English sacred establishments. The following anthem by the all-but-forgotten James Nares sets words from Psalm 125 and comes from a manuscript of anthems composed by Nares for use in the Chapel Royal. He has annotated the score as follows: The Words chose by Dr. Allen, Sub-Dean of his Majesty’s Chapel Royal, desiring they might be set, in the Compass of five Minutes. 1757. Geo: 2d: desiring short Anthems, because he never sat during ye anthem, & began to be fategued with standing long as usual. The other musical genre common in England in the 17th and 18th centuries was the ‘occasional piece’ – a composition written to mark a special occasion, such as a royal visit, birthday or saint’s day. Many of these pieces took the form of an ode. John Eccles wrote such a work, ‘Inspire us, genius of the day’, in 1702-3, seemingly for William III’s birthday. After the death of the King, it was re-purposed for the birthday of Queen Anne. These images are just a small selection of those made for the RISM Music Manuscripts Project (www.rism.org.uk) – which aims to document all music manuscripts from 1600 to 1800 preserved in UK libraries and archives – and which are now made available on Wikimedia Commons. Along with the images are links to descriptions of each manuscript in the British Library catalogue and RISM database. While this gallery provides examples of a wide range of composers’ and scribes’ handwriting, these are single photographs, not complete manuscripts. The Library is now moving on to digitise entire music manuscripts, and you can find most of those that have been completed at www.bl.uk/manuscripts (just search for ‘music’). We have also digitised about 320 of our 16th-century printed music sources, in a partnership with Royal Holloway, University of London, and these can be viewed at www.earlymusiconline.org. In the coming year, we will be working to digitise Handel’s autograph manuscripts – a large undertaking – and will continue to make as much material as possible freely available. I should like to acknowledge the assistance of Andrew Gray in making the ‘Composers and Scribes’ collection available on Wikimedia while he was working as Wikipedian in Residence at the British Library. Dr Sandra Tuppen is Curator of Music Manuscripts at the British Library. Visit the British Library’s collection of digitised music manuscripts on Wikimedia Commons to explore the full set of more than 400 images. This post is part of our Curator’s Choice series, a monthly feature consisting of a guest article from a curator about a work or group of works in one of their “open” digital collections. The series is undertaken in partnership with OpenGLAM and made possible through funding from the European Union’s DM2E project.
Let these pictures guide you through the journey that a single nut takes from the lush landscapes of Northern NSW and South East Queensland to a table near you. Macadamias can be found all over our country, but most production is concentrated in the beautiful, lush regions of South East Queensland and Northern NSW. Did you know that macadamia nuts start out as flowers? The draping strands of flowers on a macadamia tree are called racemes. There are around 100 individual flowers in each raceme, but usually only around five of those will turn into nuts. Macadamia orchards are full of these white or pale pink flowers each year during spring. Growers encourage both native Australian bees and European ones by placing hives around their farms. Some consider the small native bees to be the best pollinators of the delicate flowers. The nuts develop throughout the summer, encased in their hard shell with an outer green husk. Nuts that aren’t yet fully grown are called nutlets. Although the timing for each season can vary depending on the weather conditions, macadamias are usually ready for harvest in March. Fully grown nuts drop to the ground when they are ready for harvest. So growers actually gather them from the ground rather than picking them off the trees. Harvesting used to be done by hand, but these days farmers use tractors and finger wheels to collect the nuts while still in their husks. Nuts are usually removed from their husk on the farm, revealing the hard, brown shell beneath. The dehusked macadamias are delivered to processors in their shells where they are weighed, graded and cracked. The very hard shells are as useful as the nut is delicious. They can be used to make everything from homewares to pool filters and are even used as a renewable energy source. No part of the macadamia is wasted. Most people buy macadamias already cracked and ready to eat. You can purchase macadamias in their shells but, because they are so hard, the nuts usually require a specialist nut cracker to open them. The kernels have a distinctive, buttery crunch that makes a moreish snack and provides rich nutty flavour and unique texture to both savoury and sweet dishes. They can also be transformed into macadamia milk, macadamia butter and a number of other delicious dairy alternatives. Back on the farm, one season flows into the next. After the harvest, growers have time for a quick cuppa, before they prepare the orchard for next year’s crop.
Okra, also known as gumbo, is a vegetable used in various african dishes. The origin of this pod vegetable is unknown, but some researches place the first cultivation of okra in Ethiopia and ancient Egypt. Next to the use of okra as an african food it’s also used in many caribean, south-american and asian dishes. They can be used fried, cooked or even raw in many different dishes and salads. When cooked the seed pods get their famous slimeness or ‘goo’ fiber. This might not look really taste, but the taste of it is really delicious and gives it the real african flavour. the plant of the Okra grows in warm climates and is available fresh there all year round. In northern countries they are mostly available in summer or in the frozen section of your Asian, African or Caribean convenience store all year round. Okra can be found in different sizes and shapes and depending on a certain african dish one prefers a certain size. the vegetable can be used in stews, soups or as a fried or cooked vegetable. since Gumbo is used all over the African continent check out the different dishes and recipes for this delicious african pod vegetable.
Religiously devout atheist, if radioactive dating cold that makes any difference to those around researchers asked participants for their. Radiometric dating definition: nouna method for determining the age of an object based on the concentration of a particular radioactive isotope contained within. Definition of radioactive dating – our online dictionary has radioactive dating information from uxl complete life science resource dictionary encyclopediacom: english, psychology and medical dictionaries. Radioactive dating of the 600-meter-thick halite deposits, and of the sediments above and below them, indicates that the salty strata. • radioactive dating (noun) the noun radioactive dating has 1 sense: 1 measurement of the amount of radioactive material (usually carbon 14) that an object contains can be used to estimate the age of the object familiarity information: radioactive dating used as a noun is very rare. Radiocarbon dating (also referred to as carbon dating or carbon-14 dating) is a method for determining the age of an object containing organic material by using the properties of radiocarbon (14 c), a radioactive isotope of carbon. Radioactive dating shows that the mites were entombed roughly between 3,200 and 800 years ago, polyak notes. Radioactive dating was not possible until 1896, when the radioactive properties of uranium (a radioactive metallic element) were discovered by french physicist (a person specializing in the study of energy and matter), antoine henri becquerel (1852–1908. Radioactive dating definition a process for determining the age of an object by measuring the amount of a given radioactive material it contains if one knows how much of this radioactive material was present initially in the object (by determining how much of the material has decayed), and one knows the half-life of the material, one can deduce. Radioactive dating the determination of the age of an artifact, bone, rock, etc based on the known rates of decay of radioactive isotopes of various elements. «radioactive dating» radiometric dating is a technique used to date materials such as rocks or carbon, usually based on a comparison between the observed abundance of a. Radioactive dating definition, meaning, english dictionary, synonym, see also 'radioactive decay',radioactive series',radioactive tracer',radioactive waste', reverso dictionary, english definition, english vocabulary. Radioactive definition is — of, caused by, or exhibiting radioactivity of, caused by, or exhibiting radioactivity how to use radioactive in a sentence. Radioactive dating n measurement of the amount of radioactive material (usually carbon 14) that an object contains can be used to estimate the age of the object. But the radioactive atoms used in dating techniques have been subjected to heat a half-life is more easy to define than some point at which almost all of the. Radiometric dating or radioactive dating is a technique used to date materials such as rocks or carbon, in which trace radioactive impurities were selectively. Definition of radioactive dating in the definitionsnet dictionary meaning of radioactive dating what does radioactive dating mean information and translations of radioactive dating in the most comprehensive dictionary definitions resource on. Radioactive dating has given new time determinations for human ancestors and evolution in the dim anthropological past science past: from the issue of march 9, 1963 scientists used new radioactive dating techniques to determine both the date of the impact and that of dinosaurs' extinction. Radiometric dating 1 any method of determining the age of earth materials or objects of organic origin based on measurement of either short-lived radioactive elements or the amount of a long-lived radioactive element plus its decay product. Radioactive dating of certain isotopes in the rock indicates that it formed beneath the martian crust some 4 searching for life in a martian meteorite the new finding, based on a highly accurate method for the radioactive dating of primitive meteorites, pinpoints one of the earliest and most important events in the solar system-the time at which frozen.
Learn something new every day More Info... by email Deadweight losses have to do with the difference between gains made by one party, in comparison to losses sustained by a second party, when a particular course of action is taken. The concept of a deadweight loss can be applied to business dealings between individuals, the relationship between a producer and consumers who buy the business’s products, or even the relationship between a government and the citizens residing with the government’s jurisdiction. In all its incarnations, the idea of assessing this type of loss is to determine if the gains achieved are worth the degree of loss that is incurred. When it comes to business dealings between individuals, a deadweight loss can be something as simple as a landlord increasing the monthly rent, but not making any changes to the amenities associated with the lease. In this scenario, the landlord receives a benefit, in the form of the additional revenue. The tenant sustains a loss, in that no additional services are extended, and it is necessary to reduce spending in other areas of the household budget in order to honor the increased rent payment. With businesses, the same general approach to a deadweight loss takes place when the company chooses to increase the cost of the items it produces. While the company anticipates increased revenues, consumers are looking at paying more without receiving any additional benefit from the purchases. Assessing deadweight loss in this scenario is very important, since if the increase is enough to alienate a significant number of consumers, revenues will decrease in spite of the price increase per unit sold. Understanding deadweight loss is also important for governments. For example, a government that is considering a change to current trade restrictions will want to consider the outcome of tightening those restrictions. This means determining if the change will help to increase internal productivity within the nation, or will simply cause a decrease in the standard of living for a significant number of citizens. The answer to those questions can help the government determine if the benefits derived from the action will be sufficient to make the losses incurred by private citizens worthwhile, in terms of improving economic conditions for the majority of the populace. At its core, assessing the amount of deadweight loss is about making responsible decisions that produce positive outcomes with a minimum of negative impact. Using this concept can often help individuals, businesses, and even governments avoid taking some sort of action that seems a good idea on the surface, but ultimately creates more problems than it solves. When utilized properly, it is possible to avoid situations of net social loss, excess burden on key sectors of the population, and prevent companies in engaging in allocative inefficiency, due to the irresponsible use of limited resources.
In Tonawanda, New York, the income tax is a tax imposed on money received (income) during a certain set time period. Under federal law, and the laws of most states, income from any source can be taxed. The federal government has the constitutional power to tax income thanks to the 16th Amendment, which was enacted in 1916. Before that time, the U.S. Supreme Court had repeatedly declared the federal income tax unconstitutional, but individual states, including New York were free to impose an income tax if they saw fit. While the federal government levies an income tax against every person and corporation in the U.S., the income taxes imposed by the states vary widely. Some states have relatively high income taxes, and a few have none at all. You should consult with a Tonawanda, New York tax attorney if you don't know what type of tax system your state has. Income Tax Deductions in Tonawanda, New York A tax deduction is a reduction in the portion of a person's income that is taxable, resulting in a lower tax liability. For example, suppose your income tax rate is 10%, and you had ,000 in income last year. If you got a ,000 tax deduction, your taxable income would be ,000, and you would have to pay 10% on that. So, it would reduce your tax liability from to . Don't confuse a tax deduction with a tax credit. A tax credit simply reduces your tax bill by the amount of the credit. A tax credit typically reduces your tax bill more than a deduction of the same amount. Many expenses in Tonawanda are tax-deductible, such as interest paid on mortgages, charitable donations, the price of tax advice, and union dues, among others. How Can A Tonawanda, New York Tax Attorney Help? Income tax laws can get pretty complex. If you are in Tonawanda, New York and have any questions about your taxes, you should consult with an accountant or local tax attorney to avoid tax problems, such as audit or wage garnishment.
by: Sarah Gold Anzlovar, MS, RDN, LDN According to a new report from the American Heart Association, nearly half of Americans have some form of cardiovascular disease. But it’s not all doom and gloom. Whether you’re 25 or 75, making the right lifestyle choices—including eating a healthy diet—can significantly reduce your chance of developing cardiovascular disease. One of the best ways to keep your heart healthy is to eat more plants. When you eat vegan or a diet that prioritizes plants over animal products, you may reduce your risk of cardiovascular disease by lowering your intake of saturated fat (fat primarily found in animal foods that can contribute to heart disease). A truly heart-healthy diet goes beyond limiting or removing red meat and dairy, however. Eating more plants is just as, if not more, important! Show your heart some love by adding these foods to your plate: Embrace the Power of Produce Fruits and vegetables are filled with vitamins, minerals, and phytonutrients that may reduce blood pressure and inflammation, two risk factors for heart disease. All produce offers health benefits, but a few nutritional powerhouses for heart health include berries, dark leafy greens, and avocados. Get the Whole Grain Whole grains like oats, barley, farro, and wheat berries contain soluble fiber, which helps lower total and LDL cholesterol. High cholesterol is linked to an increased risk of heart attack and stroke. Aim to make at least half your grains whole. Go Nuts for Nuts (and Seeds) Nuts and seeds contain heart-healthy fats known as monounsaturated fats. Walnuts, along with hemp, chia, and flax seeds also provide plant-based omega-3 fatty acids, which may lower cholesterol and your risk for heart disease. Know the Benefits of Beans Beans and legumes are powerful plant-based proteins filled with fiber, vitamins, minerals, and phytonutrients, all of which contribute to a healthy heart. In fact, replacing red meat with beans in your diet may reduce cholesterol and improve other risk factors for heart disease like blood pressure and inflammation. Flavor with Herbs and Spices Skipping (or significantly reducing) salt intake can lower blood pressure in people with hypertension. Less salt doesn’t have to mean bland food, however. Turn to new herbs and spices to elevate flavor in your meals. And for even more heart benefits, cook with garlic, which is full of antioxidants and is shown to reduce cholesterol and blood pressure. Cook with Plant-Based Oils Replacing butter and other animal fats when cooking is an easy step toward improving your heart health. Plant oils like olive and canola oil contain heart-healthy monounsaturated fats. Olive oil is also known for its antioxidant properties from polyphenols, which may help reduce inflammation. Other heart-healthy oils include avocado, flax, sesame and walnut oil. Ready to add more plants to your plate? Purple Carrot makes it easy to eat plant-based meals by delivering the ingredients and recipes right to your door. Their meals are full of vegetables that promote heart health. Learn more about Purple Carrot meals here. Sarah Gold Anzlovar, MS, RDN, LDN is a Boston-based registered dietitian nutritionist (RDN) and nutrition communication specialist helping active people fuel their busy lives so they can feel their best. Sarah holds a Bachelor’s degree in Business Administration and Marketing from The George Washington University and a Master of Science in Nutrition Communication from Tufts University’s Friedman School of Nutrition Science and Policy. She completed her Dietetic Internship at Brigham and Women’s Hospital, a Harvard University teaching hospital in Boston, MA. When not in the kitchen, you can find Sarah seeking out the latest restaurant opening, teaching indoor cycling, running, training for triathlons, or hiking or skiing with her husband and golden retriever pup.
- Visual symbol is a graphics or group of elements (e.g. icon, button face, background art) that is used in the design - The designer can create a reusable visual symbol from selected object(s). - New symbol is automatically added to Library as a master - The designer can make new instances of visual symbol in the design - Changes to a symbol appear everywhere it is used in the designs - Create overrides for specific parts of individual Symbols - Speed ups workflow by giving a way to save and reuse common visual elements across the designs - No need to jump between different tools
The play that "changed American theatre forever" started with a few short lines from a long poem. By: Linnea Crowther 5 years ago The play that "changed American theatre forever," according to The New York Times, started with a few short lines from a long poem. What happens to a dream deferred? Does it dry up like a raisin in the sun? Langston Hughes wrote the poem, and Lorraine Hansberry was inspired – both by the poem and by her own real-life experience – to write A Raisin in the Sun, the first play written by a black woman to be produced on Broadway. Today, on what would have been her 82nd birthday, and we're celebrating Hansberry’s groundbreaking work. One of the central conflicts of A Raisin in the Sun was loosely based on an event from Lorraine Hansberry's own childhood. In 1938, her family bought a house in a white neighborhood, in violation of a restrictive covenant – which was legal at the time – prohibiting a black buyer from purchasing the house. The fight that ensued, against both the legal system and the hostile neighbors, deeply affected young Hansberry. Twenty years later, she channeled her memories of the struggle into one of the greatest plays of the 20th century. A Raisin in the Sun debuted on Broadway in 1959, but not without a struggle. The plays almost all-black cast made it a risky investment in pre-Civil Rights America, and it took more than a year for producers to raise enough money to begin. Even as the curtain rose on opening night, Hansberry was pessimistic, expecting bad reviews. But her powerful writing shone through, and the play was named the best play of the year by the New York Drama Critics' Circle, was nominated for four Tony Awards, and became a classic of American theater. Lorraine Hansberry (front row, 3R), at a party in honor of her Broadway play 'A Raisin in the Sun,' New York, New York, March 1959. (Gordon Parks / Time Life Pictures / Getty Images) Two years later, around the end of the play's hugely successful Broadway run, the original cast starred in a movie version. It too was successful, with Golden Globe nominations for Sidney Poitier and Claudia McNeil. A Raisin in the Sun has lived on for many years beyond the original Broadway production and movie. In 1973, it was back on Broadway, though in a different format – as a Tony Award-winning musical, named Raisin. In 1989, a movie was produced for television, starring Danny Glover and Esther Rolle. 2004 saw A Raisin in the Sun on Broadway yet again, with Sean Combs and Phylicia Rashad in leading roles, and in 2008 the cast reprised their roles in another made-for-TV movie, earning several Emmy nominations. Times have changed greatly since Lorraine Hansberry wrote A Raisin in the Sun. But her play remains a classic, with its themes of dreams and struggle, family and the home, still resonating today.
It swiftly brings the reader up to speed on techniques and functions commonly used in VHDL (VHSIC Hardware Description Language) as well as commands and data types. Extensive simple, complete designs accompany the content for maximum comprehension. The book concludes with a section on design re-use, which is of utmost importance to today's engineer who needs to meet a deadline and lower costs per unit. *Gets you up to speed with VHDL fast, reducing time to market and driving down costs * Companion website with source code and other documents to assist the student in building the reference design used throughout the book (http://www.elsevierdirect.com/companion.jsp?ISBN=9781856177047) This books helps you with : - Introduction and Background: VHDL - Brief History of VHDL; FPGA Architecture - Overview of the Process of Implementing an FPGA Design: Design Entry; Synthesis; Simulation; Implementation; Bitstream Generation - Loop 1 - Going with the Flow: The Shape of VHDL - Loop 2 - Going Deeper: Introducing Processes, Variables and Sequential Statements: Tool Perspectives - Synthesis Options and Constraints - Loop 3: Introducing Concept of Reuse; Flexibility Using Generics and Constants; Functions and Procedures; Attributes; Packages; Commonly Used Libraries Copyright Disclaimer : This site does not store any files on its server. We only index and link to content provided by other sites. Please contact the content providers to delete copyright contents if any and email us, we'll remove relevant links or contents immediately.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia - View original article Wade County was a political subdivision of the Choctaw Nation of Indian Territory. The county formed part of the nation’s Apukshunnubbee District, or First District, one of three administrative super-regions. The county was named for Alfred Wade, a prominent Choctaw leader and statesman. Following the American Civil War—in which the Choctaw Nation joined the Confederate States of America—Wade was among the national leaders who traveled to Washington to negotiate with the American government to secure peace, achieved at great cost via the Treaty of 1866. Wade lived six miles east of Talihina.  The county seat of Wade County was Lenox, or Tuli Hina in the Choctaw language, five miles east of Whitesboro and 14 miles east of Talihina. Lenox was situated near the Kiamichi River. A United States Post Office operated here from 1896-1913. Lenox served primarily as a court ground, not as a population center. The Choctaw Nation’s capital, Tuskahoma, with its splendid Choctaw Capitol Building, was also located in the county. Wade County’s boundaries were, as were all Choctaw counties, designated according to easily recognizable natural landmarks. As example, the confluence of Jack’s Fork Creek with the Kiamichi River—just outside present-day Clayton, Oklahoma—served as the southwestern corner, with the county’s landmass stretching to the east and north. From this corner point the southern border followed the Kiamichi south for a distance, and then traveled eastward along the tops of the Kiamichi Mountains framing the south side of the river valley, south of Tuskahoma and Albion.  Like all Choctaw counties, Wade County served as an election district for members of the National Council, and as a unit of local administration. Constitutional officers, all of whom served for two-year terms and were elected by the voters, included the county judge, sheriff, and a ranger. The judge’s duties included oversight of overall county administration. The sheriff collected taxes, monitored unlawful intrusion by intruders (usually white Americans from the United States), and conducted the census. The county ranger advertised and sold strayed livestock.  As Oklahoma’s statehood approached, its leading citizens, who were gathered for the Oklahoma Constitutional Convention, realized in laying out the future state’s counties that, while logically designed, the Choctaw Nation’s counties could not exist as economically viable political subdivisions. In most the county seat existed generally for holding county court, and not as a population center. This was true of Lenox, too. While Wade County contained more sizeable towns than most, it would have to be dismantled in order to accommodate changes required by the region as a whole. This conundrum was also recognized by the framers of the proposed State of Sequoyah, who met in 1905 to propose statehood for the Indian Territory. The county structure proposed by the Sequoyah Constitutional Convention also abolished the Choctaw counties. Wade County was divided principally into the proposed Pushmataha and Wade counties. Talihina and Albion would have been Wade County’s chief towns. Much of this proposition was two years later borrowed by Oklahoma’s framers, who largely adopted the proposed boundaries or concepts of these counties for the future Le Flore, McCurtain and Pushmataha counties in Oklahoma. Certain shifts were made involving towns of Albion, which was given to the new Pushmataha County, and Wilburton, which was given to the new Le Flore County instead of Pittsburg County. The Sequoyah framework had called for Wilburton to be placed in the same county as Hartshorne, and Albion to be grouped together with Talihina in a new Wade County. The territory formerly comprising Wade County now falls primarily within Le Flore and Pushmataha counties. Wade County ceased to exist upon Oklahoma’s statehood on November 16, 1907.
Meet Calestous Juma, Africa’s genetically modified crop ‘optimist’ ‘Technological intolerance’ has hampered adoption of GMOs, particularly in Africa, says Harvard professor Calestous Juma. |Report an Error| Share via Email View 2 photoszoom “I thought these crops could have the potential to help protect the environment, for example if they reduced the use of chemicals, or if they allowed you to use less land to intensify production.” When Calestous Juma was 9 years old, floods inundated his family’s village. Port Victoria sits on the Kenyan shore of Lake Victoria, just shy of the Ugandan border. As residents began considering how to replant family farms on less land, Calestous’ father, John Juma, travelled to Uganda. He returned with cuttings of the cassava plant, a starchy, carbohydrate-rich tuber. At the time, cassava was unfamiliar in that part of Kenya. The village debated whether to plant the cassava. Some wanted to wait until the water subsided and replant traditional crops. When wild pigs, displaced by the flood, came and ate some seedlings, villagers blamed John Juma’s cassava for attracting them. And “they were worried these plants would breed demons,” says Calestous Juma. The cassava enthusiasts eventually prevailed, however, and Juma says the crop has become a staple in Kenya. Fifty years later, Juma cites those debates as the fuel for his interest in agricultural innovation, the issue that knits together a career that has taken him from Kenya, to the U.K., Canada and the U.S. Juma is a professor of the practice of international development at Harvard, the director of the science, technology and globalization project at the Harvard Kennedy School, and the director of the Agricultural Innovation in Africa Project, funded by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. But the cassava story also explains the frustration that seeped from a speech he gave in Montreal, when he accepted an honourary degree from McGill University. Juma, who calls himself a genetically modified crop “optimist,” titled the speech “A Plea for Agricultural Innovation” and used the platform to decry the “technological intolerance” that has hampered the adoption of GMOs, particularly in Africa. He says the debates around biotechnology remind him of the cassava arguments in his village in the early 1960s. “Very often, we may overreact about the possible negative impacts of (new technologies), and make decisions that are based on emotion, rather than on evidence.” Critics of biotechnology argue that the hesitation to adopt genetically modified crops is a matter of prudence, not fear: it reflects our limited knowledge of their effectiveness and safety. But Juma says evidence in support of GMOs is growing, and hopes they will soon be as familiar as cassava, particularly in Africa. “Sixty per cent of the world’s arable land available today is in Africa. All efforts to feed the world — not just to feed Africa, but to feed the world — in the next decade or more are going to focus on Africa. Which means Africa has to do it right, and have the scientific basis not to mess it up.” The agricultural challenges of feeding 9 billion people — the world’s projected population by 2050 — “are sufficiently gargantuan that we are going to need every tool in the kit,” says Val Giddings, senior fellow with the Washington-based Information Technology and Innovation Foundation and a friend of Juma’s. “He has quite understandably become less patient.” Source of inspiration If Juma’s early interest in agriculture was fed by his father’s attempts to introduce cassava, his early interest in science and technology came from watching John Juma work as a carpenter. As a child, Calestous became known in the village as someone with a penchant for fixing things. When he was 12, his parents excused him from church on Sundays to develop a small business repairing broken radios and record players. Juma’s mother was another source of inspiration. She gave up farming to become a trader of fish, maize and other foods, learning a new language, Luo, in the process. “Being able to think about new things, doing new things, experimenting, was always a big part of my early childhood,” says Juma. The family didn’t have enough money to send him to university, however. So, at 19, Juma became a science teacher in Mombasa. Classes ended at midday; Juma spent his afternoons at the local library penning letters about various issues to the Daily Nation newspaper. His letters became popular and editors eventually persuaded him to become a science and environment reporter. As far as Juma is aware, he was the only science reporter in sub-Saharan Africa. After a year at the Daily Nation, he was hired by the Canadian head of a Nairobi-based environmental group launching a magazine funded by the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA). The connections he made led to a scholarship from Canada’s International Development Research Centre (IDRC) that sent him to the University of Sussex for a masters and PhD in science and technology policy. After Juma returned to Nairobi, he established the Africa Center for Technology Studies, the continent’s first think-tank that applied science and technology to development issues. In 1995, he was hired by the United Nations to become the executive secretary of the convention on biological diversity. When the convention established its permanent home in Montreal, Juma moved to Canada. His Montreal move in 1996 coincided with the first planting of commercial GM crops in the U.S., and the explosion of interest and concern in the technology. At the UN group he now headed, there was massive debate. Many argued GM crops would harm the environment and only benefit rich, large-scale farmers. “I had come from the environmental field, and I thought these crops actually could have the potential to help protect the environment, for example if they reduced the use of chemicals, or if they allowed you to use less land to intensify production.” Juma used his speech in Montreal last week to argue that, 17 years after those first commercial GM crop plantings, research has confirmed his early views. A total of 108.7 million hectares of land were saved between 1996 and 2011 through the efficiency of biotech crops, according to the International Service for the Acquisition of Agri-biotech Applications (ISAAA), a pro-GMO not-for-profit. The ISAAA and other research has calculated that GMOs saved hundreds of millions of kilograms of chemical pesticides since 1996 and reduced greenhouse gas emissions by billions of kilograms. Some dispute those figures — particularly on pesticide reduction, since new research shows more insects are evolving resistance to GM crops. Research on the economic boon to poor farmers is clearer. In a 2003 article in the journal Science that has been cited more than 550 times, a German-U.S. academic team examined farm trials in India of insect-resistant GM cotton. The GM crops saw yield boosts of 80 per cent compared to the conventional variety — a much greater advantage than most U.S. farmers saw when switching to GM, since unlike the poor Indian farmers, the Americans had been using sophisticated chemical insecticides. One of the authors of the Science paper published another study this month in PLOS ONE showing that small-scale Indian farm households growing GM cotton also saw better calorie consumption and dietary quality, as a result of higher incomes. The researchers estimated that the GM technology was responsible for a 15 to 20 per cent drop in food insecurity in those households. In Burkina Faso, a 2010 study showed farmers who used GM cotton increased their yields enough to raise their annual cotton income by 31 per cent — an average income boost of $207 for farmers who earned just $657 from the crop. Yet only four African countries — Burkina Faso, Egypt, Sudan and South Africa — allow commercial GMO crops. In some African countries, GMO field trials aren’t even permitted. In Montreal, Juma pointed to a popular culprit for this reticence: policy-makers in Europe, where deep restrictions on biotechnology have been in place for more than a decade. In a 2010 poll, more than 60 per cent of European respondents said GMOs made them “uneasy.” “The delays (in Africa) can be partly attributed to technological intolerance, much of which has been handed down by European anti-biotechnology activism,” Juma said in Montreal. “There are several different channels of external influence on Africa’s policy area in this regard, and Europeans dominate most of those channels,” says Robert Paarlberg, a professor of political science at Wellesley College, who has known Juma for over a decade. Paarlberg and others say the influence of aid money, post-colonial relationships, institutions like the UN, and activist organizations like Greenpeace have allowed European leaders to pressure and scare African governments into resisting biotechnology. Critics, however, question the time, attention and money being heaped on biotechnology at the expense of other possible solutions to the problem of global food security. “The assumption that’s being made by people like Juma is that we can only get there by using genetic engineering, and of course the implication is that other technologies can’t get us there,” says Doug Gurian-Sherman, senior scientist at the Union of Concerned Scientists food and environment program. “We simply don’t know that.” Gurian-Sherman wants to examine solutions like conventional breeding techniques, improved irrigation and decreased food waste. Juma says biotechnology is not a silver bullet — but we cannot afford to ignore its promise. Growing more vocal In 1998, Juma left Montreal for Boston (his wife, Alison, is from Boston, though they met in Ottawa; their son Eric is 15). Juma parlayed a fellowship at Harvard into his current array of titles. He says he left his UN job primarily because he didn’t want to see the Cartagena Protocol on Biosafety passed under his watch; it tightly regulates the handling, transport and use of GM organisms, and Juma has called it the product of a “pessimistic world view.” Today, Juma disseminates his own world view through talks, teaching, publications and a 35,000-follower Twitter account. He has also co-chaired high-level panels on biotechnology and innovation for the African Union. Biotechnology is by no means Juma’s only interest. He is concerned with the poor communication between research organizations and teaching universities in Africa, which hampers innovation. And he’s worried about infrastructure: it’s no use using genetic modification to grow more corn per hectare if farmers can’t get the corn to market. But Juma is growing ever more vocal about genetically modified crops as the papers mount and the problems grow. “I follow the evidence,” he says. “It’s not that I’m more of an advocate. It’s that there’s more evidence to share.” Juma’s nearly 70,000 tweets mostly consist of shared stories and articles. But he also has a penchant for tweeting quotations. A few of the most recent: - Canadian wins Nobel Prize for work 'crucial to our view of the universe' - NEW Conservatives promise $1 billion for auto industry - Income gap in Toronto is growing, warns new report - Jays' Donaldson out for redemption, revenge in playoffs - Tories of all persuasions will be happy selling the TPP: Hébert - NEW Montreal to dump 8 billion litres of raw sewage into St. Lawrence - Ottawa loses bid to put niqab ruling on hold - Scotiabank drops out as major Nuit Blanche sponsor
It is clear that real violence against another human violates the first statement. This is definitely backed up by their non violent behaviour. Controlled experiments place little emphasis on this relationship. The list gets longer the more I study! It is within this context that violent video games are blamed by the media, or invoked in discussions about high school massacres McCormickp. The game a child plays can be a good or a bad thing in his life. The news is filled with stories of war, and murder. That kind of violence is unfortunately what entertains millions of Americans. However, it is important to note that when a child plays a violent game he is likely to experience some physiological effects. There are many games on the market and movies that have portrayed snipers shooting people. This observation waters down the chances of violent games leading to violent behaviour in children. Vice City, is there an ethical issue of any kind in this case? Consequently, his performance at school definitely deteriorates. To ban or restrict any type of media based on purely supposed immoral grounds is paternalistic and a form of legal moralism. The game focuses on eliminating the other team;hence teamwork has a major role in succeeding the game. Ultimately, it will be shown that violent video games are immoral, not because of their effects, consequences, or failure of duty, but because of the impact they have on the virtue of the player. This was achieved by looking at the problem through the ethical approaches of consequentialism, deontology and virtue ethics. It is a game, make believe, not real. So in conclusion, violence in video games is shown to be harmless and in some cases it may even help you. A critique of the morality of violent video games What are the arguments that violent video games are immoral? Several studies have been conducted to investigate the relationship between such games and violent behaviour in children. Some media commentators have sought to link video game violence to the horrendous spate of school shootings which have become a sad reality in the USA and Europe. In general video games is an astonishing tool to keep children entertained during leisure time. The act of playing computer games has many consequences, however, the moral implications of playing violent games is hard to determine Reynoldsp. He also has a responsibility to release the game to the 4 million consumers who have already pre-ordered the game. Where the deontologist does have an argument, is that there is clear justification for regulation based on the duty of governments to protect its citizens from harm. To support this argument, empirical research which supposedly links violent video games and real world aggressive behaviour is raised in support of this position Schulzkep. One effect that is common with all of them is their addiction. Some people believe that the connection between violent games, and real violence is also fairly intuitive. These options will ignite the sense of logical thinking, and strategy formations in which formal education does not offer. Yes, because the game is already classified the game from 17 years up and is legal, so the choice of buying the game depends on the children who want it and of the parents who buy it to their kids. Mill, JSOn liberty, representative government, the subjection of women: An Anthology 2nd editionBlackwell Publishing, Cambridge, pp. In playing the games kids are likely to become desensitized to gory images;which could make them less disturbing, and perhaps easier to deal with in real life. In other words, the virtue of the player is eroded, and they are distanced from the chance to achieve eudaimonia — a deep and fulfilled happiness through the capacity to reason; that is, to be human McCormickp. Friendships can sometimes be developed through playing video games,and ultimately keeping them away from drug usage, and violent activities. From this perspective, the immorality of a violent video game should focus on how players act, with the morality of the act being determined by how others are treated within the game world Schulzkep.Essay: A critique of the morality of violent video games What are the arguments that violent video games are immoral? Which arguments. GET EVEN A BETTER ESSAY WE WILL WRITE A CUSTOM ESSAY SAMPLE ON Ethics: Selling Violent Video Games TOPICS SPECIFICALLY FOR YOU. Order now. Violent Video Games and Ethics Essay by gm, University, Bachelor's, March download word file, 3 pages download word file, 3 pages 8 votes 1 reviews/5(1). The first and most important reason why violent video games have negative impact on child is it’s negative physical consequences. Violent Video Games Children And Young People Essay. Print Reference this If you are the original writer of this essay and no longer wish to have the essay published on the UK Essays website then. The video games phenomenon is somewhat new in this modern society. Although they often to be entertaining, the contents have become more violent and disturbing as computing technology has become much more advanced. These days, the popularity of violent video games has caused an increase in controversy. Parents and experts feel that some games. Ethical Issues Of Video Games And Violence Philosophy Essay If anyone wants to buy and play violent video games, she/he should buy and play them. Further, if all people would play violent video games then level of violence, aggression, and anti-social behaviour would increase dramatically and finally I would be involved in the created.Download
A Day to Mark Fallen Species Eighty years ago, the world’s last Tasmanian tiger, also known as the thylacine, died in Hobart Zoo in Australia. This year, animal lovers and conservationists around the world will mark the extinction of the thylacine and other vanished creatures on the sixth annual Remembrance Day for Lost Species. The gloomy holiday will be “celebrated” with art installations, public talks, memorials, and other events in more than a dozen countries on Nov. 30. Founder Persephone Pearl, an artist and the codirector of the ONCA art gallery in Bristol, England, said the event aims to show that “learning to grieve is part of the process of healing our broken culture.” Pearl came up with the idea for Lost Species Day in 2010 after creating a mock extinction funeral as “part of an all-night climate vigil” meant to hold the incoming U.K. government to the commitments it made earlier that year at an international climate conference. Other people got involved, and a full-scale theater piece called Funeral for Lost Species was held in spring 2011. The first official Remembrance Day for Lost Species was held later that year, and things have snowballed since then. This year there are so many events that “I can’t keep track of them anymore,” Pearl said. Although most of the events are scheduled for Nov. 30, a few have taken place, including one at a park in South London, this past weekend. Organizers handed out leaflets that looked like “lost pet” signs but were about recently extinct species. “Then we read out a list of 125 extinct species and the years in which they were declared extinct,” said organizer Daniela Othieno, who has created Lost Species Day art projects for the past three years. “For me, getting involved in Lost Species Day is as much about raising awareness as about processing my own thoughts and feelings about what is happening and giving others an opportunity and space to do the same.” Othieno said that event produced a lot of emotion and some confusion among the people in the park. “Many people told us that they were glad we were doing it, but quite a few expressed total surprise at the rate of extinction,” she said. “Some confessed they had never really thought about it.” In the United States, tattoo artist J. Trip, cofounder of an endangered species awareness effort called the Holocene Project, will be creating extinction-themed hourglass tattoos in Englewood, Colorado. “You can put one anywhere on your body you want and start spreading knowledge as soon as someone asks you about it,” he said. Other scheduled events include an expedition in New Orleans in memory of the ivory-billed woodpecker; an extinction vigil in Washington, D.C.; a musical procession for lost species in New York City; and a ceremony for the thylacine in Brisbane, Australia. Pearl said she hopes to continue Lost Species Day for many years to come and praised what other artists have brought to the message. “I love the interdisciplinary action of artists, biologists, and conservationists working together,” she said. “This is a time of grief,” she said. It’s also one of remembrance.
In an effort to assess the effects of surface water withdrawl, FWRI's Fisheries-Independent Monitoring Program, Southwest Florida Water Management District, and Tampa Bay Water are working together to monitor several rivers along the west coast. As Florida's population increases, demands for surface water withdrawals to meet potable water demands also increase. Freshwater must often be extracted from various water bodies in the state to meet this demand, and tidal rivers are often selected as suitable locations. However, the same freshwater that is being harvested is a key ingredient for the state's estuaries. Each day, millions of gallons of freshwater enter into Florida's bays and estuaries. This water quickly mixes with the saltwater, creating within the estuary a salinity gradient that ranges from freshwater to full-strength saltwater. This range between freshwater and saltwater is necessary for the estuary's inhabitants to flourish. In fact, the majority of marine fish caught by recreational anglers (i.e. red drum) depend upon this influx of freshwater for at least the early stage in their lives. Several rivers flowing into Florida's estuaries have become sites for freshwater withdraw to satisfy the demands of Florida's growing population. Scientists have worked for years to define the point at which withdraws begin to disrupt the ecosystem. Water resource managers call this limit the Minimum Flows and Levels (MFL) for the water body. Florida statutes (Section 373.042) require that water management districts across the state establish MFL for all water bodies. Several of the water management districts have funded short-term monitoring programs to develop baseline data that can be used to establish more meaningful MFL. In addition to Minimum Flows and Levels, the water management districts oversee water resource permitting. In the late 1990s, Tampa Bay Water, a government agency that provides wholesale water to Hillsborough, Pasco, and Pinellas counties, was granted a permit by the Southwest Florida Water Management District to withdraw additional surface waters from the Hillsborough, Alafia, and Palm rivers during periods of high water flow. In granting this permit, the Southwest Florida Water Management District (SWFWMD) required that Tampa Bay Water initiate the comprehensive Hydro-Biological Monitoring Program (HBMP). The HBMP is designed to ensure that water flows do not deviate from the normal rate to the extent that water quality, vegetation, and animal populations are adversely affected, that salinity distributions in tidal streams and estuaries are not significantly altered, and that recreational use and aesthetic qualities of the resource are not adversely The multi-disciplined HBMP established by Tampa Bay Water surveys hydrology, water quality, benthic fauna, zooplankton and ichthyoplankton, fish and macro-invertebrates, emergent and shoreline vegetation, and birds. Most of the surveys employ a stratified-random sampling design, so the data collected can be used to describe the entire study site. The Fisheries-Independent Monitoring Program at the Fish and Wildlife Research Institute has been contracted to conduct the fish and macro-invertebrate survey portion of the study. During each of these studies, the Fisheries-Independent Monitoring (FIM) program collects fish and macro-invertebrate samples at randomly selected sites within each river. In each study area, shallow water samples (<1.8 m) are collected with 21.3 m seines, and deeper water samples (>1.8 m) are collected with 6.1 m otter trawls. All fish and select macro-invertebrates (blue crabs, stone crabs, pink shrimp, and grass shrimp) are identified to species and counted. Fish lengths are also recorded prior to releasing the animals. Specimens are visually inspected for external abnormalities, such as parasites, ulcers, and tumors. Animals determined to have abnormalities are returned to the lab for further analysis. Additional data recorded at each sample site include the - Habitat-bottom vegetation, bottom type, and shore type - Site-latitude, longitude, and depth - Weather-wind, cloud cover - Water-salinity, temperature, pH, dissolved oxygen, clarity, Also, monitoring is taking place on the Myakka river and Venice inlet for 18 months to support establishing MFL. A similar twelve-month study is taking place on the Weeki Wachee river.
How to Paint a Venice Canal in Watercolour We are so used to normal roads that are constructed on terra firma that we tend to forget there also waterways in certain areas which are the only means of transport. There are water roads (canals) in various countries such as England , Holland, and in Venice, etc. In this class you will paint one of Venice’s canals in watercolour. In this lesson you will learn: 1. How to paint a different colour sky 2. How to paint a sunlit wall 3. How to simplify the windows and wall details 4. How to paint the water reflections 5. and much more No Reviews Yet With a soft pencil such as a 3B, rub graphite on the back of the template and then trace it over onto the watercolour paper. With the top well taped down, check every so often to see if the lines have been transferred properly. The lines must not be too light. Plan the whites Carefully look at your reference photograph to locate all the areas that need to be kept white. Carefully cover them with masking fluid. Use a smallish round brush, remembering to clean the brush every so often – more often than not. Paint the sky Wash in the blue of the sky and lighten it as it nears the horizon. Add more water to the mix to do this or you can simply lighten it up with a thirsty brush. While still damp, drop in a very light touch of red to the lower part to add some glow into the sky. If it is too red then lift some of the colour out until you have the correct hue. Block in the walls of the building Start with the furthest buildings that are in the sun. The add a medium brown wash for the wall on the right, which is in the shade. These first washes are to establish the colour and tonal ranges -sunshine and shadows. Block in the darks Painting in of the darks first helps to give a sense of perspective and proportion to the scene. Don't go too dark at this stage. Plot in the foliage and shadows of the window boxes. Add them in a very impressionistic manner. Notice that the colours and the tonal ranges of the window baskets lighten and get duller as they recede into the distance. This gives the impression of depth to the painting. Adding the shadows The shadows on the wall are glazed over with a warm purple glow. This glaze has been added over the light brown wall as well. When glazing, make sure that the painting is completely dry, and then apply with a very light pressure so as not to disturb the detail underneath. Walls in deep shade Because the sun is on the right side, this wall is in deep shade. Begin to add in the windows with a darker mix of the shade colour. The main building With the darker colour carefully negative paint out the shapes of the pillars. Darker shadows have also been added to the flower boxes. Add touches of red to the window boxes to brighten up the scene. Paint the canal water Establish the shadow along the building edge. The lighter colour is the pavement and the darker colour is the vertical wall of the embankment. Block in the basic colour of the boats. Paint in the reflection of the sky with bright blue. Main water reflections When blocking the main reflection, remember to keep the edges jagged to emulate the ripples in the water. Keep all lines in the vertical and NOT crosswise at all. While the paint is still damp (not wet) drop in the dark reflections so that the edges soften out slightly. Add the poling sticks Paint the two poling sticks that have been parked for future use. The light strip is the pavement and the darker strip is the reflection of the pavement wall. Add the jagged reflections of the downpipe and the poles Add the fence in the distance. The main ripples in the water With a flat, hard brush that has been dampened, carefully lift out some ripples, being careful to keep them perfectly horizontal to the bottom edge of your painting. You can also carefully scratch out the reflections with a craft knife. You May Also Like
Choose one of the following Rocks for more details: Var. chiastolite. Andalusite is stable at low pressures and temperatures. Slate shingles cover the Museum's central dome and roof. Slate makes good shingles because it splits easily into thin, durable sheets of solid rock. Why? It contains platelike mica minerals arranged in narrowly spaced layers. Slate with deformed trilobite fossil Deformation related to faulting flattened the black fractured rock and its fossil at an angle to the original layers. You can see the result: a long, asymmetric trilobite. Slate with Chevron folds Deformed while cooler and less ductile, this slate buckled into more angular folds. Slate with undeformed trilobite fossil Flowing rocks can be stretched into elongated forms. Compare this specimen and the other piece with the same number. Once, both of these trilobite fossils looked alike.
June 1, 2018 - Results from the 2015 Residential Energy Consumption Survey (RECS), released today by the U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA), now include estimates of energy consumption for an expanded list of energy end uses. For electricity, the number of end uses estimated has expanded from 4 to 26 by adding estimates for equipment such as dishwashers, clothes washers, clothes dryers, televisions, and lighting. The expanded end-use categories that consume electricity vary widely in how much energy they consume and how commonly they are found in the 118 million U.S. homes that are occupied as a primary residence. Lighting is used in all homes and consumes a substantial portion of electricity— 10% of the total electricity used in homes. Nearly every home had a television in 2015; only about 3% of homes had no television. Televisions and their associated peripheral devices such as set top boxes and internet streaming devices use 7% of the electricity used in homes each year. Other equipment is relatively less common but can account for a larger share of electricity consumption in the homes that have them. For instance, only 7.9 million homes, or about 7% of the national total, reported using a pool pump. Nationwide, pool pumps consume 1% of the electricity used in homes, but among homes that have pool pumps, the equipment consumes 8% of total electricity consumed each year. Refrigerator energy consumption and expenditures have been reported since the 1990 RECS. The 2015 estimates provide additional detail to this category, with separate estimates for the most-used and, in the homes that have them, the second-most-used refrigerator in a home. As a group, refrigerators use 7% of the electricity used. Most energy consumed for refrigeration is consumed by the most-used refrigerator in a home (77%), with second refrigerators consuming 18% of total refrigeration consumption nationwide. New estimates are also available for other common electric appliances, including clothes dryers (5% of total electricity consumption), microwaves (1%), dishwashers (1%), and cooking (1%), which collectively covers stoves, ovens, and cooktops. For dishwashers and clothes washers, the estimates cover only the electricity used to operate the equipment and not the energy used to heat the water drawn by these appliances; that energy would be accounted for in the estimate for water heating. These end uses and the other previously itemized estimates collectively cover 87% of residential electricity use. The remaining category “not elsewhere classified,” now comprises only 13%, and combines a number of end uses that were not publishable individually, such as computers, smartphones, and small kitchen appliances, as well as consumption from end uses not captured on the RECS Household Survey. From 1990 through 2009, RECS estimated consumption and expenditures for four end-use categories: space heating, air conditioning, water heating, and refrigerators; the remainder was aggregated as other. In 2015, nearly half of residential electricity consumption fell into this other category. As certain appliances and equipment have become more prevalent in homes, this remainder category became a larger share of residential energy consumption, especially for electricity. More detail is also available for natural gas and propane end uses. For natural gas, the 2015 RECS provides expanded estimates for natural gas cooking, clothes dryers, pool heaters, and hot tub heaters. For propane, the new end uses detailed are clothes dryers and cooking. These data are available in tables as well as a microdata file. Before 2015, previous RECS surveys used statistical regression models to disaggregate a home’s energy consumption across published end uses. With the 2015 study, EIA transitioned to using engineering models which incorporate more information and usage behavior from the RECS Household Survey, from equipment specifications, and from research, to produce improved estimates of energy consumption of devices in homes. This improvement in methods for energy allocation affects comparisons with prior RECS. In order to assist data users interested in analyzing the time series of end-use consumption, EIA has published a brief report describing how this change in methodology has affected end-use estimates. EIA has also updated the methodology report for this survey to provide more information on the consumption data collection and end-use estimation approach. CoalZoom.com - Your Foremost Source for Coal News
Children drink water and then suffer from diarrhea.Nowshera, where AAR has been carrying out its activities, has no sewerage system and only 20% of this region has access to water supply. People mostly satisfy their need for water using wells, but the locations of some wells cause problems such as the infiltration of colon bacillus into the water through the surrounding drainage. As such, most of their water is not appropriate for drinking. However, there is no alternative water resource here. Our prior inquiry indicates that as many as 48% of the pupils of Pakistani public elementary schools and 69% of the pupils of Afghan refugees’ primary schools developed diarrhea within the past one month. |AAR’s support has enabled pupils to drink clean water. | At Mera Akora Khattak Pakistani Government Primary School for Boys. (December 18th, 2013.)
by William Dollarhide If you are a genealogist, you are an avid user of the federal censuses, 1790 to 1930. But even experienced census users may not know about some of the obscure aspects of the censuses. Here's one of them. It's called the "census day." Beginning with the 1790 federal census--and continuing with every census thereafter--each enabling law authorized by Congress specified a "census day" for gathering the census information from every household in America. From 1790 to 1820 the census day was the first Monday in August. The census day was NOT the day the enumerator arrived at a household; it was the day for which all the statistics of the census were collected. The instructions given to all the U.S. Marshals just prior to the 1820 census "All the questions refer to the day when the enumeration is to commence, the first Monday in August next. Your assistants will thereby understand that they are to insert in their returns all the persons belonging to the family on the first Monday in August, even those who may be deceased at the time when they take the account; and, on the other hand, that they will not include in it infants born after that day." Similar instructions have been given for every census since 1790, but with different census days. The table below shows the census day for each census, 1790 to 1930, and the time allowed to take the census: Census Year / Census Day / Time Allowed 1790 / 2 August / 9 months 1800 / 4 August / 9 months 1810 / 6 August / 10 months 1820 / 7 August / 13 months 1830 / 1 June / 12 months 1840 / 1 June / 18 months 1850 / 1 June / 5 months 1860 / 1 June / 5 months 1870/ 1 June / 5 months 1880 / 1 June/ 1 month 1890 / 1 June / 1 month 1900 / 1 June / 1 month 1910 / 15 April / 1 month 1920 / 1 January / 1 month 1930 / 1 April / 1 month 1820 & 1830 Census Day Differences: On the above table, note that the census day changed in 1830 from the first Monday in August to the first day of June. If one is researching families appearing in the 1820 and 1830 censuses, looking at these families again may be important. Since the census days for 1820 and 1830 are not exactly 10 years apart, the two-month difference may reveal some surprising results. For example, if a person were born between 1 June 1820 and 7 August 1820, that child would appear in the 1820 census in the "under 10" age category. But in 1830, that same person would appear in the "of 5 and under 10" rather than the "of 10 and under 15" age category, since the person had not yet The age category for anyone born between 1 June and 7 August in any year would be affected by this reporting change between 1820 and 1830. Comparing the 1820 age categories for a person appearing 10 years later and not in the "correct" age category may actually give a clue to a person's date of birth within a two-month period. Time Allowed to Take a Census: On the table above, note the time allowed to take each census. All of the states complied with this provision, except South Carolina in 1790. South Carolina could not complete its 1790 enumeration in nine months. The U.S. Marshal complained that he was having great difficulty finding people to take the job because of resistance to the census being taken. A Charleston jury met to decide the fate of six persons who had "refused to render an account of persons in their households as required by the census act." A South Carolina census taker was brought on trial for neglect of duty because he did not complete the census in his district. These and other problems led to South Carolina being granted an extension, and the census returns were dated 5 February 1792, a full 18 months after the census day. Differing Census Days: In a couple of cases, there have been census days assigned to certain states that were different from the rest of the U.S. for that year. When Vermont entered the Union as the 14th state in 1791, the 1790 census was already underway. Vermont's 1790 census was taken with a census day of the first Monday in April 1791, with five months allowed to take the census there. Utah, which became a territory in September 1851, had its 1850 census taken with a census day of 1 April 1851. But the dates on the Utah census pages are mostly in October 1851. Thus, the 1851 census enumerators probably asked Utahans questions like, "Six months ago, back on April 1st, who was the head of this household?" Census Day Versus Enumeration Date: Genealogists should record two dates when copying information from the censuses: the census day and the enumeration date. No matter how many months it took for an enumerator to reach a house, he was supposed to gather the information as if time had stopped on the census day. Every person whose regular abode was in a particular household on the census day was to be enumerated, even if a person was away at the time of the enumeration. Understanding the impact of the census day versus the enumeration date may explain why certain people appear in a census listing, even though you have other evidence to show the person died before the household was enumerated. If a person was alive on the census day, that person was to be included--even if it took some time for the enumerator to get around to that house to take the census. The person could have been dead for several Or, you may wonder why that youngest child in a family was not listed in a census. If a child were born after the census day, that child was not to be included--even if the census taker had visited the house and was aware of a playful little toddler crawling around in front of him. Now, some of you will want to go back to all of those census lists you have copied down and confirm the date of enumeration AND the census day. Any missing people? Any extra people? Good census hunting!
||A Wikibookian believes this page should be split into smaller pages with a narrower subtopic. You can help by splitting this big page into smaller ones. Please make sure to follow the naming policy. Dividing books into smaller sections can provide more focus and allow each one to do one thing well, which benefits everyone. Overlaps the other book: Introduction to Software Engineering The idea of this book is to couple together the different projects on the different subjects of software engineering. Currently the only book linked is Computer Programming. Other subjects should be added over time. As written in the Computer Programming book, coding is only a small part of software engineering. This book is intended as an introduction to the realm of software engineering. What is software engineering?Edit A systematic approach to the analysis, design, implementation and maintenance of software. Software engineering is the engineering discipline through which software is developed. Commonly the process involves finding out what the client wants, composing this in a list of requirements, designing an architecture capable of supporting all of the requirements, designing, coding, testing and integrating the separate parts, testing the whole, deploying and maintaining the software. Programming is only a small part of software engineering. The discipline is still in its infancy (early stage of growth/development) as an engineering discipline. We haven't had enough experience, nor gathered enough empirical data to systematically understand and predict the life-cycle of a software project. The Software Engineering Body of Knowledge (SWEBOK) divides software engineering into 10 knowledge areas: - Software requirements - Software design - Software construction - Software testing - Software maintenance - Software configuration management - Software engineering management - Software engineering process - Software engineering tools and methods - Software quality The content of the fieldEdit Note: the following summaries are originally from Wikipedia. These are here only temporarily. The titles aren't final, nothing on this page is final yet (or even near final). Vision and ScopeEdit The practice of software engineering in the corporate or industrial sector, starts with the business and ends with the business. Although computers, programming languages, and creative problem solving are what fill the engineer with interest in the field, without servicing and enabling the user, the exercise would be pointless. Thus the first stage in any software engineering process, is the Vision and Scope document, or some equivalent meeting. A vision of the system to be built is described by the user or Product Champion. The business context that it will service is described. The key stakeholders are enumerated including their interests, risks, etc. The success conditions are listed, so that it is understood what will be completed and how to measure success. Business opportunities are discussed, to justify why the project should be invested with the blood, sweat, and tears of programmers, testers, project managers, and program managers. The Scope of the project is made clear and if it is to be in phases, the scope of each phase at a high level is laid out. The priorities of the project are recorded. With an understanding of the business' vision, the engineers begin to ask questions. Extracting requirements of a desired software product is the first task in creating it. This process is called requirements elicitation. While customers probably believe they know what the software should do, it may require skill and experience in software engineering to recognize incomplete, ambiguous or contradictory requirements. Compounding this problem is the absence of formal abstractions. A civil, mechanical engineer has a plan, elevation, sections to refer to and these make good sense to both the author and reader of these abstractions. However, while (E-R) or object diagrams, process flow diagrams, data flow diagrams are abstractions that have been used and built on, many of these are not universally used or practiced. Besides, considerable effort goes into repairing and enhancing existing systems. Engineering required here is a mix of reverse and forward engineering in the sense that requirements definitions refer to a set of circumstances that already exist and these circumstances have to be stated in unambiguous terms as well. Perhaps, lack of universally accepted abstractions make life difficult for software engineers and some people have even argued that software production process is closer to art rather than engineering! Of late, people have started using prototypes in various degrees of working. Screen shots and report layouts are non working prototypes and form the basic level of prototyping and increasing sophistication is built in wherever possible. Making prototypes is always more time consuming than not making one. Thus, this practice is not always utilised. The role of analyst can be fulfilled typically by three types of people. A technical project manager, a software engineer, or a dedicated analyst. In some organizations it is unthinkable to engineers that they would serve the analyst role, as they are "technical" and would consider dealing directly with the customer unthinkable. This is purely a cultural stance that varies between companies and organizations. It is also quite common for software engineers to work closely with the business people and customers associated with a project, and this programmer/analyst role can be quite beneficial to the projects success rate. As you are gathering requirements, you can subject them to analysis. Does the requirement in question conflict with others? What is its priority? Where did it come from? Does it need further clarification? Analysis is ability to draw inferences from requirements and represent them in a structured way. Structures themselves may vary based on what is being analysed. It is very tough to draw boundaries between analysis and requirements gathering as they both use the same abstractions many a time. One could argue that analysis yields data storage structures and workflow structures etc. However, one would think that these are not the only outputs from analysis. The common technique that means the software requirement analysis begins with communication between two or more parties. Review of a software requirement specification is conducted by both software developer and customer. Because the specification forms the foundation for design and subsequent software engineering activities, extreme care should be taken in conducting the review. The review is first conducted at a macroscopic level. At this level, the reviewers attempt to ensure that the specification is complete, consistent and accurate. Once the review is complete a software requirement specification is signed off, “by both customers and developer”. While requirement analysis phase some problems are come. The problems are identified and defined and listed here. • The problem occurs that did exist in smaller systems, which leads to a redefining of priority of the activities that go into developing software. • In the beginning of the requirements phase, the needs of clients are in the minds of various people in the client organization. • The major role of the problem statement is that the customer has a problem that may be responsible to a computer-based solution. A developer responds to the customer’s request for help. Here the one more problem is the path from communication to understanding is often full of difficulties. The above case study/problem determined while requirement analyzing phase in "system engineering". This page can be improved soon. --Ananthakumar Selvaraj (discuss • contribs) 13:02, 18 March 2013 (UTC) Once the vision and scope of a engineering project has been established the requirements gather process begins. One tool for communicating between the customer, analyst, developers, and testers is a set of Use Cases. A Use Case typically has a name, a short description, and then a number set of steps which a user would go through to accomplish a task. Use cases are sometimes grouped together in a UML or other format of diagram depicting users, the system, external entity and specific use cases. Use Cases are typically coarse-grained and don't dive into every detail and functional requirement of the system. A business person or software engineer should be able to read through all of the use cases and get an idea of the entire scope of what the project will deliver. Formality of Use CasesEdit Agile driven projects may skip these cases, or at least only record the attributes discussed above. Plan driven methodologies may give additional attributes to Use Cases such as alternative paths after covering the main steps, trace requirements covered by the use case back to their source, and have an error handling section for each use case. THE STAGES OF ANALYSIS Analysis is typically accomplished in two stages. The first stage, Business Analysis includes an in-depth examination of the customer's present set of business or manufacturing processes and procedures with an eye toward how they might be improved by automation. The second stage, Systems Analysis consists of an examination of the proposed improvements and a recommendation on what computer environment and software technology is best suited to accomplish those improvements. BUSINESS ANALYSIS STAGE From the Business Analyst's in-depth understanding of the customer's present environment, he or she creates a set of "business use-cases", which are short descriptions of the role that each of the business's "actors" perform within each process or procedure. For instance, the waiter in a restaurant might have a use case as follows: " A. Actor approaches customer table, introduces self and recites a description of the day's specials. B. Actor presents a beverage menu and inquires if customer would like to order a beverage. C. If yes, actor writes each customer's order on a drink tag and proceeds to bar area. D. Actor presents the tag to bar-keep and makes a mental note to check back within a customary time to see if the drink order is complete. E. If no, Actor presents a dinner menu and helps customers to make selections. As each new party of customers is seated, actor repeats procedure, beginning from step A." With a set of raw use-cases like the proceeding, the business analyst can, with the customer's collaboration, examine how each use-case might be automated and can thereby define an official system requirement which becomes one of maybe hundreds of requirements that define the future software application. As might be surmised, the effective Business Analyst must not only have extensive experience with and knowledge of the business world, but must also have expertise in the potentialities offered by modern software systems and how those systems map to the reality of the business world. SYSTEMS ANALYSIS STAGE The second stage of the analysis process, Systems Analysis begins from the foundation laid by the business analyst. From the set of business use cases and their resultant software requirements, the Systems Analyst makes recommendations as to the most suitable software technology to accomplish those requirements. In some cases, the hardware environment limits choices of software technologies. For instance, in the restaurant scenario, above. The customer might be adamant about providing the waiter with a handheld device to replace the drink tag and to make the trip to the bar unnecessary before the drink order is ready to serve. In such a case, the systems analyst might be constrained to using only those operating systems and APIs that are supported on the preferred handheld device. Once the programming and run-time environment is decided, then the systems analyst can begin turning the business use-cases and requirements into a set of "system use-cases," which are descriptions of how the actors will interact with the proposed system. Those system use-cases, taken together now comprise the actual blueprint that will be used by software architects to begin laying out the classes or other software modules that will define a road map for the software coding and development process which follows. Specification is the task of precisely describing the software to be written, in a mathematically rigorous way. In reality, most successful specifications are written to understand and fine-tune applications that were already well-developed. Specifications are the most important for external interfaces that must remain stable. Once you have gathered requirements, captured them into a specification, and the customer agrees with it, it is possible to take a snapshot or baseline of the project requirements. This allows one to manage existing requirements and process new incoming ones. The specification is placed under configuration management, such as a tool like CVS so that the requirements can be versioned and tracked. It is important to reject requirements that - Don't fit within the project scope - Cannot show a positive return on investment - Won't make the system competitive - Aren't technically feasible A requirement rejected doesn't have to be further analyzed, implemented, documented, or tested. Every requirement costs the company and must be thought through. Regardless of whether your methodology is agile or plan driven, you should create some form of change control to process new requirements. Failure to do so may lead to project failure due to scope creep, project overruns, poor quality, or high costs. Change control can be as simple as a development manager reviewing specification, to an elaborate tool supported process with forms and a board of people with change control authority. Lack of communication about changes to a specification can lead to costly wasted work by developers, testers, or analysts. The time it takes to change one requirement in a specification, may cost 100 times the person hours to realize the decision. Design and ArchitectureEdit Design and architecture are the activities involved in specifying how the software will actually work. This phase frequently described as being divided into two main phases, which might be described as "business design" and "technical design". Business design generally specifies the "why" of the system, indicating how data will be used and how it will flow. Technical design generally specifies the "how" of the system, or how its components will be arranged, what their features will be, and what kind of hardware the system will require. These two phases can often be conducted roughly simultaneously, with business design usually starting first and technical design ending last. Of all of the phases, the design phase can often consume the most time, and many engineers consider it the most important. A poor design can cause the failure of a project, even after considerable resources are spent during the construction phase of the project building it. It is important for the design and architecture of the system to be complete enough that it can be validated and then used to develop the system. Reducing a design to code may be the most obvious part of the software engineering process, but it is not necessarily the largest portion. In fact, many software engineers only work on the analysis and design process, then the coding work is handed off to computer programmers to implement. This trend is increasing in many companies, where software engineers are hired domestically and the implementation is out-sourced to a country where programming labor is less expensive. In spite of this trend, many software engineers still go through the entire process and do coding as well as design. The purpose of testing is not only to prove that the code performs in accordance with the design specifications, but to prove that it does not fail when subjected to undefined inputs. There are several types of testing. Unit testing tests one module of code for correct inputs, outputs, and functionality. System testing tests all the modules of a software system together. User acceptance testing is a form of systems testing to see if not only the system works, but it meets the requirements of the business user. Regression testing is testing performed after a system change to make sure that all system features are still present after the change. To perform systems and verifications testing, Use cases are developed. These cases describe a user action or a specific feature of the system. These cases are very useful during the construction phase of the system, and are usually specified as a deliverable of the design phase. The use cases are generally gathered into test scripts which describe testing activities in a reproducible way. These scripts may be executed manually by testers, or they may be executed by automated testing software. Generally speaking, it is an accepted industry practice for system testing and validation to be performed by a separate person, team, or department, or in some cases, by an outside entity. Testing is considered a specialized skill, with a skill set that is very different from system development. It also is generally considered a bad practice for software developers to test their own systems, since they can form habits that do not exercise the system thoroughly, and because they can frequently test around system failures. There are different kinds of testing such as white box testing or black box testing. An important (and often overlooked) task is documenting the internal design and external functionality of software for the purpose of future maintenance and enhancement. Software documentation is important. Without documentation, software can be unusable, because the end user does not know how to operate a program. Without documentation, an application can be incorrectly installed on a server, causing components to fail. Documentation is most important for external interfaces. There are several means by which software can be documented, including flowcharts, deployment guides, user's manuals, and maintenance manuals. Development team members may write their own documentation, or a professional technical writer may write or edit the documents for readability and style. It's important to note that testing is or should be done during or at the end of every stage. If this is not done, inputs into the next stage can not be very complete. Documentation may also be sketchy or none existent. Maintaining and enhancing software to cope with newly discovered problems or new requirements can take far more time than the initial development of the software. Not only may it be necessary to add code that does not fit the original design but just determining how software works at some point after it is completed may require significant effort by a software engineer. About 2/3 of all software engineering work is maintenance, but this statistic can be misleading. A small part of that is fixing bugs. Most maintenance is extending systems to do new things, which in many ways can be considered new work. Similarly, about 2/3 of all civil engineering, architecture, and construction work is maintenance in a similar way. Applied Software EngineeringEdit The process of software engineering differs between different software types. Building a word processor has different requirements and design methods than building a 3D first person shooter. These sections cover the differences and unique properties of the different software types. SE on Application softwareEdit SE on Server SoftwareEdit Software engineering for server software is more complex then development for the desktop computers. A server is more complex, has more requirements and features than an ordinary, consumer system. Server software can have client-server as well as central architecture. Development and testing of server software is also different from the development and testing of the desktop software. Not every programming language is suitable for implementation of server software. In conclusion, SE on server software requires special methods and processes to successfully complete. The main reason server software is more complex is that communication between 2 computers -- the server and the client -- is inherently more complex and prone to failure than communication between parts of a program running on a single computer. SE on SimulationsEdit Scientific and engineering simulationsEdit Designing software for gaming simulations can be quite challenging, since it requires a diverse background in software. For example, a game designer might have to write software that simulates physics as well as software that renders 3-dimensional images. However, many software engineers in the gaming industry are able to use 3rd party engines that make their job much easier. Nonetheless, they must follow the software engineering process closely, since small issues in the software can make the product fail in the consumer market. Writing software for games is a high-risk industry and only a small percentage of games are financially successful. SE on Embedded softwareEdit Software engineers that work with embedded computer systems need more knowledge of hardware than most software engineers, since embedded systems typically introduce more constraints on memory availability and processing power than, say, gaming PCs. Designing software for embedded systems can indeed be challenging, since most embedded processors cannot handle the overhead produced by compiling high-level languages. This often forces software engineers to implement embedded software, at least partially, in assembly.
Impressionism in Canada with Inés Bonacossa Sunday, January 27 @ 1:30 $15 Admission | $12 Members The term “Impressionism” was coined in 1874 when critic Louis Leroy accused Claude Monet’s Impression, Sunrise of being simply a sketch (or “impression”, as its title suggests) rather than a finished work. In “The Exhibition of the Impressionists”, a particularly biting review of Monet’s painting, Leroy wrote that “wallpaper in its embryonic state is more labored than this seascape”. Impression, Sunrise was part of a Parisian exhibition that displayed the works of independent French artists, including Edgar Degas, Berthe Morisot, and Pierre-Auguste Renoir. Despite Leroy’s criticism, “Impressionism” became a favourable term to recognize not only this particular group of artists, but also an artistic style characterized by depictions of contemporary life, rapid brushstrokes, bright colours, and an emphasis on capturing light. As an artistic movement, Impressionism was not restricted to France alone. In fact, it influenced many painters working within Canada’s art scene and generated a distinctly Canadian form of Impressionism in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. So how did Impressionism take hold in Canada? How was it received here? And how did Canadian Impressionism distinguish itself from its French counterpart? Find out the answers and join in on the discussion this Sunday at “Impressionism in Canada”, Dalnavert’s lastest lecture with Inés Bonacossa. Join Inés on a journey from the origins of Impressionism in France to its development here in Canada and take in plenty of beautiful paintings along the way. For full details on the lecture, visit the event page here. While our lecture doesn’t take place until Sunday, you can get a head start and acquaint yourself with the Impressionists right now! Below are a few examples of both French and Canadian Impressionist paintings. Do you notice any similarities or differences in style between the two groups (ie. lighting, brushstrokes, colour)? Is the subject matter the same? What makes the Canadian landscape so distinct?
The Validation Rule operator evaluates input data against a rule. That is, a logical expression checking for particular values, null, not null, and so on. The user may define one or more rules and give each rule a meaningful name. Input data that evaluates to true are sent to the 'pass' port, and failing records are similarly sent to the 'fail' port. There is a 'failInformation' port that shows the rules that failed and a unique ID for those records. The 'outError' port receives messages to help diagnose problems, such as corrupt input stream characters. Configure and Run the Graph - Click the Validation Rule Demo icon to load the sample graph. Notice the Validation Rule operator has four output ports (described above) attached to four Terminal operators. - In the toolbar, select Run (play button). The Status panel indicates whether the graph is running. - To view the passing records, click the Pass Output terminal, and then select Open UI. - To view the failing records, click the Fail Output terminal, and then select Open UI. - To view the failure information, click the Fail Info Output terminal, and then select Open UI. - To view any error messages, click the Error Output terminal, and then select Open UI. For this example graph, there will be no errors. Rules and Substitution Values Explained - The input data generated by the Data Generator has four columns: ID, Name, Title, and Salary. The Name, Title, and Salary values are randomly selected, and the Title field has the possibility of having a null value. - Click the Validation Rule operator and select Open Configuration. The configuration values are shown in the right pane. - Click on the Rules * option. The rule "Title is NOT NULL" is By default, this means that records with the Title value of NOT NULL are sent to the 'pass' port, and records with a Title value of null, are sent to the 'fail' port. This behavior is controlled by the 'Fail Action' setting, which has a FAIL default value. - But for this example, notice that 'Fail Action' is set to BOTH. This instructs the Validation Rule operator to send records that fail the rule to both the 'pass' port and ALSO the 'fail' port. Why would you do this? - You can provide a substitution value to update or correct the failed records. - The substitution value "fixes" the aspects of a record that failed the rule and all the records are sent to one port. The records are output in the same order from the input source, even for the records that have the substitution value included. - Click the Substitutions option. The substitution "Title - 'Intern'" - Because the substitution is defined as 'Intern', any records that fail AND are sent to the 'pass' port have the Title column updated with the value of 'Intern'. Those records that go the 'fail' port do not have the Title column updated, and remain null. Input data (ID, Name, Title, Salary), 3 records - Notice that record 2 has a null Title 1,Ben,Software Engineer,60543.45 2,Drew,,0.0 3,Glenn,CEO,123054.34 Receives all input records (passing and failing records). Notice the failed record (#2) received the substitution value of 'Intern' for the Title column. Substitution action only occurs to records that fail a rule AND are sent to the 'pass' port. 1,Ben,Software Engineer,60543.45 2,Drew,Intern,0.0 3,Glenn,CEO,123054.34 Receives the one record that failed the rule. Notice the 'B' indicating record was sent to BOTH the 'pass' and 'fail' ports. Failed rules are shown with a unique identifier. 2,Drew,,0.0,B,Failed rules(s): Title,1.0 - Receives information on failed records: unique ID, rule name, and column
By Samuel Rajzman Samuel Rajzman is one of the very few survivors of the Treblinka death camp - he was lucky enough to escape. The testimony he gave, more than 60 years ago, is still important to understand the enormity of the crimes committed in that death camp and in the Final Solution. Before the war he was employed in the Miedzyrzecki Overseas Import & Export Company in Warsaw. His account, given before the American House Committee on Foreign Affairs in 1945, follows. In June 1942 placards bearing the following notice were posted on the walls of Warsaw: "Persons not employed in a German firm or the Jewish Community Administration are subject to immediate deportation from the ghetto; the able-bodied will be given employment." About the place of deportation, nothing was known except that it was in the east. Next to the new posters there immediately appeared "Help wanted" advertisements of German firms. The factories, stores, and workshops owned by the Jews had been turned over to German administrators; thus a great number of new German firms had been created. People paid fantastic sums (from five to twenty thousand zlotys, $1,000 to $4,000 per person) to find employment in a German firm and thus escape deportation. Those who still had anything to sell converted it into cash. But those who had no funds were doomed. The day after this announcement it became known that Engineer Czerniacow, president of the Jewish Community, had committed suicide. This reports spread panic among the inhabitants of the ghetto. They knew that the German order concerning deportation had caused his suicide, but it was not clear why; all kinds of conjectures were advanced in explanation, but although the event boded no good, not even the worst pessimists had any idea what was really in store for the Polish Jews. Next day the ghetto was surrounded by patrols posted at short intervals; these prevented anyone from leaving or entering the ghetto, even Gentiles who possessed special passes entitling them to circulate freely in the Jewish quarter. The ghetto now became a real inferno. Processions of carts loaded with little children from orphanages and charity homes passed along the streets. These frightening and trembling mites were being deported; they did not know that never again would they see the city where they had been born and brought up. Behind the children's carts walked inmates from old peoples' homes, aged men and women tottering on their feet, who were forbidden to end their lives in their own city. The Elite Guards escorted the processions. Then the Germans began to check the documents of the remaining inhabitants. Soldiers swarmed everywhere in the streets and houses, they searched cellars and attics, and asked everyone to show his identification papers. Those who could not prove that they were employed in a German firm were taken to the square where the deportees were rounded up. These manhunts results in many victims. The slightest gestures of disobedience, the slightest hesitation before showing one's papers, a smile that the Germans did not find sufficiently pleasant, meant death on the spot. People were killed in their homes, in their court yards, in the streets. In the end many preferred being deported to having their papers checked. The deportees were crowded into trains, at first at the rate of six to eight thousand a day: subsequently the average daily contingent was 20,000. Several weeks later it became known that the Germans had murdered all the old people and children, and that the able-bodied had allegedly been taken deep into Russia. The news of the murder of the old folks and children aroused those who remained to desperate thoughts about countermeasures. When the Germans realized this, they forced the deportees to send letters to their families informing them that they were alive and that all was well with them. The purpose of these letters, which the Nazis frightened the deportees into writing before killing them, was to prevent further rumors. Under the threat of death people wrote to relatives whom they were never to see again. This even took place on the square where the victims were gathered. In the terrible ordeal of the ghetto, children were taken from their mothers, people were beaten and murdered for no reason at all, those who ventured into the streets did not return. By September, only 150,000 Jews of the original 600,000 remained in the Jewish community. However, it was impossible to obtain exact information on their condition because the ghetto was deserted; the employees of the German firms were now its only inhabitants. After a short respite, on September 7, 1942, if I remember correctly, new placards announced that all the remaining inhabitants of the ghetto must report to the assembly place of Mila, Nizka, and Dzika Streets at 8 a.m. to have their identification papers checked. The horrible scene presented by this migration of 150,000 people with bundles on their backs can be imagined. Crowds of Jews filled the narrow streets within a few hours. At exactly 8 a.m. cordons of troops barred all the exits to the above-named streets, those who were found in the ghetto beyond these streets were shot on the spot. Several hours later a group of Elite Guards at one of the designated corners began to inspect the people. The Jews filed by these thugs in groups of four. The latter did not check any papers at all, but directed their victims as they pleased: To the right, which meant back to town, or to the left, which meant to the station for deportation. During this review anyone who failed to realize fast enough in what direction he was supposed to move was killed. The fate of those who held or led children had been determined in advance, they had to go to the left. The writer of this account walked with his wife and two cousins, and, without a word of farewell, was forced to turn to the right, while his wife and cousins were sent to the left. After this selection, from fifty to sixty thousand Jews remained in the ghetto locked up in workshops. A small number of mothers succeeded in smuggling their children past the guards, some women had the idea of chloroforming their babies and putting them in their bundles, thus they passed the inspection. The writer witnessed the following scene: One mother had chloroformed her 11-month-old baby but, just as she was being directed to the right side, the baby awoke and suddenly began to wail in its sack. One Elite Guard pierced the baby with his bayonet through the sack. Then he returned the sack to the mother and ordered her to go leftward. A few moments later a shot resounded and the mother with her sack collapsed on the pavement. During deportation we tried in vain to find out where and for what purpose all these people were being sent away, but the German machine worked flawlessly: no one learned what happened to the victims. On September 17 the owner of the factory in which I worked, W.C. Tobbens, announced that all the workers were to gather in the yard to have their papers checked. He gave us his word of honor that after this inspection we would be sent back to our machines. In the yard five troopers were waiting for us; they took us to the train. From 80 to 90 people were crowded into 1 cattle car. After 12 hours of maneuvering on the tracks, the train left in the direction of Treblinka. The passengers fainted from thirst, hunger, and lack of air. Fifteen hours later the train stopped at Tluszoz, and 5 hours after that at Treblinka. In our car, 5 women and 2 men had suffocated. The train went up on a sidetrack. The train was surrounded by barbed wire entanglements on all sides. We were led out of the train to a nearby square enclosed by a high fence made of pine and fir branches. The passengers who arrived on the train could not see what went on behind the fence. On the square the whole transport was divided; the women were directed to the barracks on the left, the men to the one on the right. Everyone was ordered to undress completely and to deposit all valuables and money in a special place; these were to be retuned after the bath. While undressing I saw Engineer Galewski, of Warsaw, a friend of mine, among the workers. Galewski asked one of the Elite Guards to assign me to the worker's brigade. I was told to dress and was placed in a group employed in carrying bundles of clothing from this square to the storehouses. I never saw my traveling companions again. After a few minutes I understood everything. I felt resentment against Galewski, due to whose intervention I was still alive. Carrying extremely heavy bundles, we had to run the gantlet [sic] between lined-up overseers who beat anyone they could lay their hands on with heavy sticks. All those who carried bundles had swollen faces. By noon no one who knew me would have recognized me, for my face had become a bluish mass, my eyes were bloodshot. During the pause for lunch I complained to my friend and reproached him for having saved me. His answer was unexpected: "I did not save you to keep you alive," he whispered, "but to sell your life at a higher price. You are now a member of a secret organization that is planning an uprising, and you must live." The camp of Treblinka occupied a clearing 1 mile square, surrounded by woods and situation about a mile and a half from the railway station of Treblinka, on the line Malkinia-Siedlece. Beginning in May 1942 every day, with only brief interruptions, trains bringing Jews to Treblinka arrived from all over Poland, Russia, Czechoslovakia, Germany, Bulgaria, and Greece. On the average, 3 to 4 trains of 60 cars arrived every day; each car containing 80 to 150 people. The trains traveled along a siding to the entrance gate, where the train escort got off and a camp escort received the deportees. Soldiers from outside were forbidden to cross the camp grounds. Precautions to insure secrecy went so far that an electric siren was placed on the main observation tower, to signal any German plane that approached to change its course. No plane ever flew over the camp. The whole station was camouflaged in the must cunning fashion. Thus, the large barracks adjoining the platform, which served as the main storehouse for the stolen clothes, was covered with timetables of trains that allegedly came to Treblinka Station (some months later, when Treblinka had become famous, the name of the station was changed to Ober-Majdan). Then one saw a huge signpost bear the inscription: "To Bialystock and Baranowicze", such signs as "Tickets" and "Stationmaster," and finally an enormous painted arrow with the words: "Change for east-bound trains." There was also a large station clock. Inside these barracks there was nothing but clothes, shoes, and rags, but incoming people had the impression that they were really at a junction, where they would change to another train going still further east. Near the platform there was a stout fence about 9 feet high with a gate through which the newly arrived were drive in to a huge square. Their disappointment and surprise were overwhelming: instead of a junction, they were in a huge concentration camp. On both sides of the square there were barracks and enormous piles, sometimes 9 feet high, of clothing and shoes. One could hear the rattle of excavators, and the air was permeated with the odor of corpses. On the square men were at once separated from women and told to undress and deposit their papers and valuables. The most heart-rending scenes took place in the winter when women were compelled to strip their children at temperatures of 20-30º below zero in the yard or in open barracks, whose walls were of thin plywood. The unfortunate creatures had nervous shocks, cried and laughed alternately, then wept desperately while standing on line in the cold, their babies pressed close to their breasts. The hangman lashed their naked bodies to force them into silence. The naked women were then taken care of by barbers. Every woman was shaved to the skin with a clipper, then sent to the bath establishment, which consisted of 10 cabins with room for 700 to 800 persons each. In these cabins there were even towels and rules posted. Once the people were inside, the cabins were hermetically sealed, and the air pumped out with machine (poison gas was used later). Thus the victims were suffocated to death. They remained in the cabins for 10 to 20 minutes; the large number of others waiting in line for the "bath" made it impossible for the Germans to leave them there any longer. Later the bodies of the suffocated were thrown on an open oven to be burned; frequently the victims gave signs of life after being thrown into the flames, but to this the German guard did not react at all. Before the corpses were burned, a group of dentists verified whether they had any gold teeth, for these were torn out of the bodies. The oven consisted of an enormous ditch with a concrete foundation and a grate made of rails. Under the grate a strong fire blazed continually, fed by some special fuel. The workers from the transports arrived daily. As a reward for working 1 day, they were not sent to the cabins, but were killed by a bullet in the back of the head. Death by shooting was really a great privilege. Because little children at their mothers' breasts were a great nuisance during the shaving procedure, later the system was modified and babies were taken from their mothers as soon as they got off the train. The children were taken to an enormous ditch; when a large number of them were gathered together they were killed by firearms and thrown into the fire. When mothers succeeded in keeping their babies with them and this fact interfered with the shaving, a German guard took the baby by its legs and smashed it against the wall of the barracks until only a bloody mass remained in his hands. The unfortunate mother had to take this mass with her to the "bath." Only those who saw these things with their own eyes will believe with what delight the Germans performed these operations; how glad they were when they succeeded in killing a child with only three or four blows; with what satisfaction they pushed the baby's corpse into the mother's arms. The invalids, crippled, and aged who could not move fast were put to death in the same way as the children. The ditch into which the children and infirm were slaughtered and burned was called in German the "Lazarett" "infirmary," and the workers employed in it wore armbands with the Red Cross sign. The Germans boasted that the "infirmary radically cured all diseases". Our guards were especially pleased when they succeeded in deceiving and making mockery of the deportees from abroad, especially those who were prominent in any way. For instance, one day a transport of deportees came from Germany, Austria, and Czechoslovakia. None of the new arrivals had any idea of what was in store for him, all were convinced that they were to be settled here to work. An old man, a prominent surgeon from Vienna, came out and explained to the Hauptsturmfurer [sic] that he had brought with him a whole carload of special apparatus and surgical instruments. He asked that the workers kindly be instructed to take care when unloading these tools because now, during the war, it was impossible to have them repaired should they be damaged. The Hauptsturmfurer [sic] assured him very seriously that the instruments would not be unloaded until the professor returned from his bath and that he himself could supervise their transportation to the professor's apartment. It goes without saying that the surgeon never returned from the "bath." On another occasion an old lady of aristocratic appearance approached Untersturmfürer Franz, the worst hangman, and showed him her papers which indicated that she was a relative of the famous Siegmund [sic] Freud, of Vienna. She asked him to assign her to clerical work, since her age did not permit her to do any heavy work. Franz carefully verified her papers and told her to reports to the main office of the camp immediately after her bath, where he would have a pass prepared for her to return to Vienna the same day. The lady thanked him graciously, undressed, and happily went off to the bath cabin. Still another example of brutality: An elderly deportee from Warsaw recognized in the Hauptsturmführer a friend of his whom he had often met at international conferences abroad. The German official took him to the office (the only case when a Jew entered there), and an hour later one could see him walking toward the courtyard accompanied by the Hauptsturmführer's friend. ----- was in the oven. The workers in the camp were divided as follows: Group I: Classifying the new articles, carrying clothes and baggage to storerooms. Group II: Sorting stolen clothes and loading them on cars going to Germany. Group III: Sorting, packing, and counting money, foreign exchange, gold, and valuables. Group IV: Crafts, such as shoemakers, tailors, carpenters, masons, locksmiths, etc., who worked in shops. Group V: Barbers. Group VI: Dentists. Group VII: Porters to carry corpses to the oven. Groups I to V were strictly separated from groups VI and VII; even the slightest communication with them was made very difficult in order to prevent the crews that did not work directly in the cabins from leaning how the mass murder was being carried out. The workers of group VII were changed every few days. The other groups were in principle steady, but actually the life of every "steady" worker depended upon the moods of the guards, and these wanted only blood. There were thousands of pretexts for killing. If a piece of bread coming from an outside bakery was discovered on a worker the penalty was death. Death was meted out for not carefully removing the Jewish insignia from clothes of the murdered. Death for having kept a coin or a wedding ring, the last relic of the worker's murdered wife. The methods of execution were the following: (1) lashing to death while cold water was constantly poured on the victim; (2) hanging on gallows by the feet; (3) tearing to pieces by dogs (Franz's favorite amusement); (4) the mildest form of death, yearned for by everyone -- shooting. For drinking water during work, smoking a cigarette, improper saluting, and similar offenses, the penalties were from fifty to one hundred lashes on the bare body, but usually the worker was finished after fifty lashes, and if several pails of water did not bring him to, he was thrown on the fire. As a result of starvation and living in cold barracks during the winter of 1942-43, an epidemic of typhus broke out. A special office was set up, called the Krankenstube (sickroom). But when a worker with a temperature of 102 reported to the physician and the physician recommended that he be put to bed in the Krankenstube, there appeared Unterscharfurer [sic] Mieta [sic], whose specialty and favorite pastime was the "selection" of workers. Five minutes later the patient was taken to the "infirmary" where he was cured by a bullet. In the last weeks of my stay in the camp, the Jewish physician succeeded in obtaining soporifics which were injected into each patient before he was executed; he was taken to the "infirmary" only after he had fallen asleep. Dramatic scenes took place during the giving of injections, for sometimes other injections were given, to strengthen the heart, for instance. Before taking an injection the worker always said farewell to his comrades because he suspected that the injection would put him to sleep, after which he would be sent to the "infirmary." It also happened that a typhus patient was sometimes given an injection by order of Miete. Miete would ask the doctor when the patient would be asleep. The physician would answer, "In 20 minutes." Twenty minutes later stretcher bearers led by Miete would appear, to find the patient eating his ration of black bread with a healthy appetite. Consternation all around, but his excellency, Elite Guard Miete must not fatigue himself for nothing; he would order the patient to be put on the stretcher and taken to the infirmary in spite of his obvious recover. In vain would the patient weep and protest that he was now completely well. Five minutes later one would hear a shot. If so, the worker was fortunate: For having disappointed Miete he might have been hung by his feet, but all he had got was a bullet. How "steady" these workers' crews were is best illustrated by the fact that 80,000 workers passed through the camp, while a maximum of 700 were employed at one time. These are the names of some of the hangmen in the camp: The deputy commandant, Kurt Franz; chief of the guards, Obersharfurer [sic] Kittner; chief of the cemetery, Unterscharführer Floss; deputy chief of the guards, Unterscharführer Emil Miete. There were also 36 other Unterscharführers. Among the first six groups there was a conspiratorial committee who task was to avenge at least to some extent the millions of innocent people executed. They dreamed of setting fire to the whole camp and exterminating at least the cruelest engines at the price of their own lives. The work of organization was difficult, because the Germans had several stool pigeons among the workers, and all our moves had to be most carefully guarded. Finally it was decided that the only practical plan was to get ammunition and arms from the camp's arsenal. Luck favored us, for a few days after this resolution was taken, one of the Jewish locksmiths was sent to repair the lock of the armored door of the arsenal, which was out of order. The locksmith took an imprint of the key, and after 4 months' work another key was ready. Three combat units were then organized, and our leader, Dr. Julian Chorazyski, a former captain in the Polish Army, worked out a detailed plan of action. The coup was to take place on April 21, 1943. Unfortunately, on April 19, Dr. Chorazyski failed to give a proper salute to Untersturmführer Franz, who struck him in the face with his riding crop. In his excitement Dr. Chorazycki [sic] reached for his knife and was about to strike. Franz jumped out of the window shouting that Chorazycki must be taken alive. He was foiled in this design: the doctor had time to take poison. After Chorazycki's death our plan had to be postponed for several months because we had no qualified leader, and none of us wanted to take moral responsibility for an unsuccessful coup. On May 1, 1943, Dr. Lecher, a physician from Wegrow, came to our camp. He was also a former Polish officer, and after a few days in camp he agreed to take the leadership of our group. We waited for an opportune moment to get into the arsenal. On August 2, 1943, while a large group of masons were working nearby, we finally managed to open it. Thus we were able to get one of our comrades into the building and lock him up there. One of the Unterscharführers lived in a room adjoining the arsenal, and at that moment he happened to be in his quarters. The slightest rustle in the stacks of weapons could have betrayed us. For that reason we delegated Engineer Sudowicz of Czestochowa to go to this unterscharfurer, with whom he had good relations, and under some pretext lure him out of his room. At the same time, we cut a pane out of a window opposite the door at a spot that was unguarded. Outside the arsenal there was a pile of debris and bricks. A cart driven by a member of our group drove up to the building ostensibly to remove the debris. Under it 20 hand grenades, 20 rifles, and several revolvers with cartridges were loaded. All this was taken to the ditch where lime and gravel were kept for construction work, and divided among the combat units. The disinfector of the camp belonged to one of these units. His work in the camp consisted in walking around with a sprinkler full of disinfectant. We had got some gasoline from trucks and tanks in the garage through one of our comrades, a mechanic from Czestochova [sic]. On the day of the coup this gasoline was poured into his apparatus instead of disinfectant, and he sprinkled it liberally according to our leader's instructions. Curiously enough, the "disinfection" of one of our objectives took place in the presence of one of the unterscharfurers, who did not notice anything. At 3:45 p.m. we heard the signal -- a rifleshot near the gates of the Jewish barracks. This shot was followed by the detonations of hand grenades hurled at previously "disinfected" objects. An enormous fire broke out in the whole camp. The arsenal exploded and everything was burned, except the "bath" cabins, because it proved absolutely impossible to get near them. The victim of the first shot was Obersharführer Kittner, the chief of the guards and the leading camp spy. The flames devoured all the storerooms for clothes and shoes. Of the 700 workers on the camp grounds, only 150 to 200 succeeded in escaping; the others perished in the camp as well as over 20 Germans. Of the 150 to 200 who managed to escape, only 12 are still alive; the others were later murdered by the German hangmen. During the last 11 months of its existence the Treblinka camp administration recorded the exact number of deportees brought in and the exact amount of goods sent out. The number of Jews were: From Germany, about 120,000; from Austria, 40,000; from Poland, 1,500,000; from Czechoslovakia, 100,000; from Bulgaria, 14,000; from Russia, 1,000,000; total, 2,774,000. In the course of the same 11 months several hundred million dollars worth of foreign exchange, gold, and valuables were sent from Treblinka to Germany through official channels, as well as trunks full of goods which the German guards stole and exported for themselves. Uprising in Treblinka in U.S. Congress. House Committee on Foreign Affairs. Punishment of war criminals, 120-125. 79th Cong., 1st sess. Washington, D.C.: GPO, 1945.
A yellowish/orange pigment associated with fall leaf colors. Carotenes are present in lesser amounts than the other yellow pigment - xanthophyll. Like xanthophyll, carotenes are present throughout the growing season, but masked by the chlorophyll (green) pigment. See: Anthocyanin; Xanthophyll; Tannin; Chlorophyll Articles in this collection were copyrighted 1995 by the Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois. For full copyright information about the articles in this encyclopedia, click here.
Where the Spirit is in the Water! UNLIKE THE RIVER I AM THE SEA IF YOU LOOK CLOSELY YOU WILL ALWAYS SEE ME! Join the warm and friendly people of the Sea Islands Black Heritage Festival (many people, many islands)! Hold the hands of love around the globe! The wisdom, beauty, fortitude of our ancestors, a proud and brilliant people, left an indelible heritage in the universe from Africa to the Caribbean, Mexico to Central America, the coast of North America to the lands of South America, and throughout the world. The African struggle for self-determination over the centuries uniquely developed communities of cultures that helped in every aspect to define the world. We celebrate and honor our ancestors, our ESTEEMED KIN! Howard Dodson reminds us that it was the peopling of the Americas with Africans, who formed much of the human foundation on which the Americas were built, and whose presence and activities were of key importance during the formative period of the new nations. In the necessary process of re-creating themselves in their new milieu, these Diasporan Africans invented and participated in the inventing of new cultural forms such as languages, religions, foods, aesthetic expressions, and political and social organizations. Economic historian Joseph Inikori in agreement with Dodson and using quantitative data to support his contentions, states that for the three and a half centuries between 1500 and 1850, it was the labor of African peoples enslaved in the Americas that was at the center of the economic development of the Atlantic world. During this period, large-scale commodity production in the Americas transformed the Atlantic Ocean into the busiest trading mart in the world, with trade among European countries depending heavily on American products. It was the forced migration of Africans to the Americas through the slave trade and the forced labor of their descendants in the Americas through the plantation system that made this large-scale production possible and profitable. Inikori states that, "According to recent estimates, 75 percent of the American products traded during the period were produced by Africans and their descendants in the Americas." Howard Dodson, Former Chief of the Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture of the New York Public Library Joseph E. Inikori, Ph.D., Professor, History Department, University of Rochester CEDRICK FRASIER, ANGELA LINDSAY GUEST PERFORMERS: (In Alphabetical Order) EUGENE ARMSTRONG Drumming for Universal Love TRAVIS BROWN Remembers John Coltrane, Dexter Gordon ROSLYN BURROUGH Remembers Sarah Vaughan CHOSEN VESSEL Spirit Dance COASTAL YOUTH THEATRE OF VOICES Remembers The Underground Railroad KAREN DANIELS Jazz Flutist GA GEECHEE GULLAH RING SHOUTERS , Storytellers Telling Lives of the Ancient TRAE HICKS & FAMILY The Steel Guitar Remembers Michael Jackson and Frankie Lymon JAMIAH HUDSON Sings Etta James, Billie Holiday NATALIE MOORE Sings Marian Anderson SHERYL RENEE Sings Musical Legends SMOOTH JOURNEY BAND Forever Jazz GARY SWINDELL Sings and Plays the Blues VICTORIA WARD Love is Whitney Houston
- Open Access Molecular detection of Rickettsia species in ticks collected from the southwestern provinces of the Republic of Korea Parasites & Vectors volume 10, Article number: 20 (2017) Rickettsiae constitute a group of arthropod-borne, Gram-negative, obligate intracellular bacteria that are the causative agents of diseases ranging from mild to life threatening that impact on medical and veterinary health worldwide. A total of 6,484 ticks were collected by tick drag from June-October 2013 in the southwestern provinces of the Republic of Korea (ROK) (Jeollanam, n = 3,995; Jeollabuk, n = 680; Chungcheongnam, n = 1,478; and Chungcheongbuk, n = 331). Ticks were sorted into 311 pools according to species, collection site, and stage of development. DNA preparations of tick pools were assayed for rickettsiae by 17 kDa antigen gene and ompA nested PCR (nPCR) assays and the resulting amplicons sequenced to determine the identity and prevalence of spotted fever group rickettsiae (SFGR). Haemaphysalis longicornis (4,471; 52 adults, 123 nymphs and 4,296 larvae) were the most commonly collected ticks, followed by Haemaphysalis flava (1,582; 28 adults, 263 nymphs and 1,291 larvae), and Ixodes nipponensis (431; 25 adults, 5 nymphs and 401 larvae). The minimum field infection rate/100 ticks (assuming 1 positive tick/pool) was 0.93% for the 17 kDa antigen gene and 0.82% for the ompA nPCR assays. The partial 17 kDa antigen and ompA gene sequences from positive pools of H. longicornis were similar to: Rickettsia sp. HI550 (99.4–100%), Rickettsia sp. FUJ98 (99.3–100%), Rickettsia sp. HIR/D91 (99.3–100%), and R. japonica (99.7%). One sequence of the partial 17 kDa antigen gene for H. flava was similar to Rickettsia sp. 17kd-005 (99.7%), while seven sequences of the 17 kDa antigen gene obtained from I. nipponensis ticks were similar to R. monacensis IrR/Munich (98.7–100%) and Rickettsia sp. IRS3 (98.9%). SFG rickettsiae were detected in three species of ixodid ticks collected in the southwestern provinces of the ROK during 2013. A number of rickettsiae have been recently reported from ticks in Korea, some of which were identified as medically important. Results from this study and previous reports demonstrate the need to conduct longitudinal investigations to identify tick-borne rickettsiae and better understand their geographical distributions and potential impact on medical and veterinary health, in addition to risk communication and development of rickettsial disease prevention strategies. Rickettsia species are obligate intracellular bacteria in the order Rickettsiales that infect a variety of vertebrate hosts, including humans via arthropod vectors . The genus Rickettsia has been classified according to morphological, antigenic, and metabolic characteristics, but now with the availability of genetic information, new approaches to phylogenetic inferences have provided new perspectives on rickettsial classification and evolution. Members of the genus Rickettsia are divided into many different phylogenetic groups and this progression will continue with additional phylogeny data. Currently there exists: (i) the spotted fever group Rickettsia (SFGR) (e.g. Rickettsia conorii, R. rickettsii and R. japonica, the causative agents of Mediterranean, Rocky Mountain, and Japanese spotted fever, respectively, that are transmitted by ixodid ticks); (ii) the typhus group (TGR) (e.g. R. typhi, the causative agent of murine typhus transmitted by fleas, and R. prowazekii, the causative agent of epidemic typhus transmitted by the body louse); (iii) the transitional group (TRGR) transmitted by fleas, mites and ticks; (iv) the R. bellii group (ticks); (v) the R. canadensis group; (vi) the Helvetica group; (vii) the Scapularis group; (viii) the Adalia group; and (ix) the Hydra group [1–4]. Ticks, obligate parasites of vertebrates and found in various natural environments throughout the world, are divided into three families: Ixodidae (hard ticks), Argasidae (soft ticks), and Nuttalliellidae (one species in South Africa). Worldwide, ixodid ticks (e.g. Haemaphysalis flava, H. longicornis, Ixodes persulcatus and I. nipponensis in Asia; I. ricinus in Europe; Rhipicephalus sanguineus, Dermacentor andersoni, D. variabilis, Amblyomma americanum and Am. maculatum in America) are the primary vectors/reservoirs of a wide range of rickettsiae of medical and veterinary importance (e.g. R. japonica, R. rickettsii, R. conorii, R. honei, R. sibirica, R. slovaca and R. monacensis) that affect birds, wild and domestic animals, and humans in Japan, Mongolia, South Korea, Russia and China [5–11]. SFGR were first reported in Korea based on serological analysis of acute febrile patients [12, 13]. The first case of Japanese spotted fever and isolation of SFGR from a patient in Korea was reported in 2005 . These serological positive sera were assessed by molecular methods based on sequences of the ompB gene by nested PCR (nPCR) demonstrated similarities to R. conorii, R. akari, R. japonica and R. sibirica. Haemaphysalis longicornis ticks from Chungju Province were positive for R. japonica using PCR analysis and sequencing of the groEL gene . Moreover, R. japonica and R. monacensis were detected in H. longicornis by nPCR and sequence analysis of the gltA, ompB, and 17 kDa antigen genes [16, 17]. More recently, Rickettsia species have been detected in various arthropods and tick species in Korea that were collected from small mammals, reptiles, and the environment (by tick drag) [10, 18–20]. The purpose of this study was to identify the presence and prevalence of Rickettsia species in ticks collected from the southwestern provinces (Jeollanam, Jeollabuk, Chungcheongbuk and Chungcheongnam) of Korea during 2013 to identify and genetically characterize the rickettsiae based on sequence analysis of the partial 17 kDa antigen and ompA genes. A total of 6,484 unengorged ticks (adults, nymphs and larvae) were collected by tick drags when ticks were active during June-October from the southwestern provinces (Jeollanam, Jeollabuk, Chungcheongnam and Chungcheongbuk) of Korea in 2013 as described by Chong et al. [21, 22]. Ticks were identified to species level using morphological keys [23, 24] and placed in 2 ml cryovials according to collection date, species and stage of development (n = 6,484; 311 pools of 1–5 adults, 1–25 nymphs, and 1–69 larvae) (Table 1) . Ticks were washed in 70% ethanol, rinsed twice with sterile PBS, and then homogenized in 600 μl of PBS and stored at -70 °C until used for DNA extraction. DNA was extracted from 200 μl of tick suspension using the G-spin total DNA extraction kit (iNtRON, Gyeonggi, Korea) according to the manufacturer’s instructions. DNA was eluted into 50 μl TE buffer and stored at -20 °C until PCR amplification. Nested PCR (nPCR) amplification Direct amplification by nPCR was performed to identify target genes using the partial 17 kDa and ompA genes for Rickettsia species belonging to the family Rickettsiaceae. The ompA gene encoded for the SFGR-specific 190 kDa outer membrane protein and the partial 17 kDa antigen gene encoded for the Rickettsia genus-specific 17 kDa outer membrane protein. Rickettsia spp. DNA presence was screened using the 17 kDa antigen gene by nPCR as described previously . Briefly, the PCR was performed in a final reaction volume of 20 μl containing 3 μl DNA, 10 pmol of each primer, and the premix reagent (Maxime PCR PreMix kit/i-starTaqTM GH, iNtRON, Gyeonggi, Korea). nPCR was performed in a final reaction volume of 20 μl containing 3 μl of the initial PCR product, 10 pmol of each primer and the premix reagent. Samples positive for the 17 kDa gene target nPCR (appropriate size band identified following agarose gel electrophoresis) were subsequently assessed for the presence of a fragment of ompA. The premix reagent, reaction volumes, DNA templates and the amount of primers were the same as those used in the 17 kDa reactions (Table 2). Sequencing and phylogenetic analysis Sequencing of Rickettsia-positive nPCR amplicons was conducted by Macrogen Inc. (Daejeon, Korea). The obtained sequences were compared for similarity to sequences deposited in GenBank using BLAST. Gene sequences, excluding the primer regions, were aligned using the multisequence alignment program in Lasergene version 8 (DNASTAR, USA), and phylogenetic analysis performed using MEGA 6 software. Phylogenetic trees were constructed in CLUSTAL W of the MegAlign Program (DNASTAR, USA) based on the alignment of rickettsial gene sequences obtained following nPCR using the neighbor-joining method and bootstrap analysis (1,000 reiterations) carried out according to the Kimura 2-parameter method. Pairwise alignments were performed with an open-gap penalty of 10 and a gap extension penalty of 0.5. All positions containing alignment gaps and missing data were eliminated during the pairwise sequence comparison (pairwise deletion). Collection of ticks A total of 6,484 ticks belonging to two genera and three species were collected at four southwestern provinces by tick drag (Fig. 1). Haemaphysalis longicornis (4,471; 52 adults, 123 nymphs and 4,296 larvae), was the most commonly collected tick, followed by H. flava (1,582; 28 adults, 263 nymphs and 1,291 larvae), and I. nipponensis (431; 25 adults, 5 nymphs and 401 larvae). Detection and prevalence of rickettsial agents A total of 60/311 (19.30%) pools from Chungcheongnam (3/1,478; 0.20%), Chungcheongbuk (0/331; 0%), Jeollanam (53/3,995; 1.33%) and Jeollabuk (4/680; 0.59%) provinces, respectively, were positive for Rickettsia spp. using the 17 kDa antigen gene nPCR assay (Table 3). A total of 51/168 (30.36%) and 46/168 (27.38%) of H. longicornis pools were positive for Rickettsia using the 17 kDa antigen and ompA genes, respectively. Only 1/108 (0.93%) and 0/108 (0%) of H. flava were positive for Rickettsia spp. using the partial 17 kDa and ompA genes, respectively, while 7/35 (20.00%) pools of I. nipponensis were positive for R. monacensis. The overall minimum field infection rates (MFIR) of Rickettsia-positive pools (assuming 1 positive tick/pool) were 0.93% (60/6,484) for the 17 kDa antigen gene and 0.82% (53/6,484) for the ompA gene targets (Table 4) . The overall MFIR for all three species ranged from 0–0.88% for larvae, 0–6.50% for nymphs, and 0–57.1% for adults (Table 4). There were no significant differences (Chi-square test, P = 0.98) observed between the positive rates of the partial 17 kDa and ompA genes. Sequencing and phylogenetic analysis The partial 17 kDa antigen gene and ompA nPCR amplicons were sequenced and aligned with other rickettsial genes deposited in the GenBank database to identify known sequences with a high degree of similarity using ClustalW . The sequencing electropherograms of all positive pools were confirmed as single peaks, indicating each pool represented a single Rickettsia species. The amplicon sequences of the partial 17 kDa gene obtained from H. longicornis demonstrated 99.4–100% similarity to previously reported molecular sequences from H. longicornis that phylogenetically clustered with Rickettsia sp. HIR/D91, Rickettsia sp. 71-8, Rickettsia sp. HI550 and Rickettsia sp. LON-2, LON-13. Similarly, ompA sequences of positive pools of H. longicornis demonstrated 99.3–100% similarity to sequences of rickettsiae from H. longicornis previously reported as Rickettsia sp. HIR/D91, Rickettsia sp. LON-2, LON-13, Rickettsia sp. HI550 and Rickettsia sp. FUJ98, that are similar, but distinct from R. japonica. Phylogenetic analysis showed a close relationship between rickettsial isolates from H. longicornis from the southwestern provinces of Korea and rickettsial isolates from H. longicornis from other Asian countries (Figs. 2 and 3). The amplicon sequence of the partial 17 kDa gene for one positive pool of H. flava demonstrated 99.7% similarity to previously reported Rickettsia sp. 17-kDa-005 that clustered with R. montanensis and R. raoultii (Fig. 2). The amplicon sequences of the partial 17 kDa gene and ompA genes from seven pools of I. nipponensis demonstrated 100% and 98.7–98.9% similarity, respectively, to previously reported R. monacensis IrR/Munich (Figs. 2 and 3). Tick-borne rickettsiae are obligate intracellular bacteria belonging to the genus Rickettsia, many of which are of medical importance [27–29]. Clinically, tick-borne rickettsioses present with mild to life threatening signs and symptoms that include: an eschar (not always indicated) that is present 1–2 days prior to the onset of headache and fever (39.5–40.0 °C), and a characteristic rash 1–2 days after the onset of fever that can last for 2–3 weeks. Tick-borne infections are often reported as non-specific febrile diseases due to the lack of specific clinical signs and symptoms and diagnostic assays effective early in the process of disease [27–29]. In the USA, there were a total of 3,649 cases of rickettsioses reported between 1997–2002 and more than 1,500 cases reported annually since 2005 (www.cdc.gov/rmsf/stats/index.html). This increase in reporting may be due to the fact that rickettsioses are becoming more widely recognized [1, 29]. In addition to disease producing tick-borne rickettsiae, many rickettsiae (e.g. R. bellii, R. canadensis, R. asiatica, R. hoogstraalii, R. montanensis, R. rhipicephali and R. tamurae) have not been identified as pathogens and therefore are often referred to as non-pathogenic or of unknown pathogenicity. To further complicate matters, with the discovery of numerous new Rickettsia spp. in ticks using molecular tools, their role as causative agents of diseases of medical and veterinary importance has not been established, in part owing to lack of diagnostic tools for pathogen detection, rather than for antibodies . With increased interest in tick-borne diseases, surveillance of ticks from reptiles, mammals, birds, and vegetation has led to the identification of known and yet to be described pathogens belonging to genera of Ehrlichia, Anaplasma, Bartonella, Borrelia, Babesia and Rickettsia, in addition to viruses [10, 18–20, 30–36]. Rickettsia akari, a mite-borne pathogen isolated from a rodent, was first reported in Korea in 1957 [37, 38]. Later, acute febrile patients tested positive by serological tests for R. japonica in 2004, 2005 and 2006 [9, 12, 13]. Recently, various gene targets from rickettsial pathogens were identified in various ixodid tick species, including H. longicornis, H. flava, I. nipponensis and I. persulcatus [15–17]. Haemaphysalis longicornis, H. flava and I. nipponensis are commonly collected throughout Korea, while H. phasiana, A. testudinarium, I. pomerantzevi, I. persulcatus and I. ovatus have a limited geographical/habitat distribution and are collected much less frequently [22, 38, 39]. Tick-borne disease surveillance usually includes the detection of pools of ticks, as it is costly and untimely to assay for multiple agents within individual ticks . However, it is important to assay ticks from specific habitats (e.g. forests and grasses/herbaceous vegetation) and hosts over their geographical range to determine the potential association with man and domestic animals, as well as the distribution of associated pathogens [8, 10, 16, 17, 19, 20, 31, 39]. The conserved 17 kDa antigen gene was used in this study to screen for the presence of rickettsiae in tick pools. Subsequently, the 17 kDa Rickettsia-positive pools (n = 60) were assessed for the presence of ompA (also by nPCR). All but seven of the 60 Rickettsia-positive pools were positive for the more variable ompA gene. A previous report also showed that ompA genes were not detected in several different rickettsial genotypes . Results of the partial 17 kDa antigen and ompA gene sequences obtained from H. longicornis pools showed that the rickettsial agents detected were closely related to Rickettsia sp. HIR/D91, 71-8 identified in Korea, Rickettsia sp. HI550 and LON-2, LON-13 identified in Japan, and Rickettsia sp. FuJ98 identified in China. Only one Rickettsia-positive H. flava pool sequenced demonstrated a high similarity to Rickettsia sp. 17-kDa-005 identified in China, while all seven Rickettsia-positive pools of I. nipponensis were similar to R. monacensis and Rickettsia sp. IrR/Munich identified in Europe. Rickettsia monacensis, a known human pathogen, was first isolated from I. ricinus collected from an English garden in Germany in 1998 . While R. monacensis was generally observed only in I. ricinus mainly from southern and eastern Europe , it has been detected in I. nipponensis collected from rodents captured in Korea (Jeollanam Province in 2006 and Gyeonggi and Gangwon provinces in 2008) [10, 17]. Haemaphysalis longicornis is commonly collected from grasses and herbaceous vegetation, while H. flava is more commonly associated with forest habitats and I. nipponensis is collected similarly from both habitats throughout the ROK . Haemaphysalis longicornis is commonly found in grassy areas that expose civilians and military populations to tick bites and associated pathogens, which not only include Rickettsia spp., but other bacteria and viruses of medical and veterinary importance [32–35, 41]. Rickettsia monacensis has been detected in I. nipponensis, which are more frequently reported in tick bites [42–45]. While H. longicornis, the primary vector of the severe fever with thrombocytopenia syndrome (SFTS) virus, has not been frequently reported to bite humans, with 36, 51, and 78 cases of SFTS infections among civilians in the ROK reported from 2013–2015, respectively, indicates that most bites go unreported with the potential for the transmission of rickettsiae to both civilian and military populations. Additional analysis of gene sequences of Rickettsia spp. will allow for their specific identification and the development of species-specific PCR assays and determination of their medical and veterinary importance. SFGR infections are not reportable events in the ROK and some cases are likely included as scrub typhus since the symptoms, including fever, eschar and rash, are similar. Analysis of eschar tissue by PCR would allow for the detection and identification of Rickettsia spp. and scrub typhus strains among patients with similar disease presentation . The identification of the SFGR diseases and scrub typhus is essential to determine tick- and mite-borne disease risks and develop appropriate disease prevention strategies. Additional investigations to determine the identification of rickettsiae associated with each of the tick species using single tick analysis and the geographical/habitat distribution of each of the tick species and associated pathogens are needed to identify disease risks to both civilian and military populations in the ROK. Rickettsial pathogens pose a potential health threat to military and civilian communities in the ROK. Ixodes nipponensis has been shown to be infected with R. monacensis, a human pathogen, and H. longicornis and H. flava have been shown to be infected with SFGR of unknown pathogenicity. More intense and longitudinal surveillance of ticks and their hosts in the ROK is needed to determine their geographical and habitat distributions, and the geographical distribution and prevalence of their associated pathogens. The characterization of SFGR is essential to identify agents of tick-borne human diseases and their relative pathogenicity. Lastly, the detection and identification data of the rickettsiae reported herein will provide for the development of species-specific diagnostic assays that are essential for rapid detection of SFGR in the vectors, vertebrate hosts and patients. - 17 kDa: Rickettsia-specific outer membrane antigen gene minimum field infection rate per 100 ticks - ompA : spotted fever group-specific 190 kDa outer membrane protein A gene Republic of Korea Parola P, Paddock CD, Raoult D. Tick-borne rickettsioses around the world: emerging diseases challenging old concepts. Clin Microbiol Rev. 2005;18:719–56. Gillespie JJ, Joardar V, Williams KP, Driscoll T, Hostetler JB, Nordberg E, et al. Rickettsia genome overrun by mobile genetic elements provides insight into the acquisition of genes characteristic of an obligate intracellular lifestyle. J Bacteriol. 2012;194:376–94. Merhej V, Angelakis E, Socolovschi C, Raoult D. Genotyping, evolution and epidemiological findings of Rickettsia species. Infect Genet Evol. 2014;25:122–37. Murray GGR, Weinert LA, Rhule EL, Welch JJ. The Phylogeny of Rickettsia using different evolutionary signatures: how tree-like is bacterial evolution? Syst Biol. 2016;65:265–79. Sekeyova Z, Fournier PE, Rehacek J, Raoult D. Characterization of a new spotted fever group Rickettsia detected in Ixodes ricinus (Acari: Ixodidae) collected in Slovakia. J Med Entomol. 2000;37:707–13. Tian ZC, Liu GY, Shen H, Xie JR, Luo J, Tian MY. First report on the occurrence of Rickettsia slovaca and Rickettsia raoultii in Dermacentor silvarum in China. Parasit Vectors. 2012;5:19. Speck S, Derschum H, Damdindorj T, Dashdavaa O, Jiang J, Kaysser P, et al. Rickettsia raoultii, the predominant Rickettsia found in Mongolian Dermacentor nuttalli. Ticks Tick Borne Dis. 2012;3:227–31. Cheng C, Fu W, Ju W, Yang L, Xu N, Wang YM, et al. Diversity of spotted fever group Rickettsia infection in hard ticks from Suifenhe, Chinese-Russian border. Ticks Tick Borne Dis. 2016;7:715–9. Chung MH, Lee SH, Kim MJ, Lee JH, Kim ES, Kim MK, et al. Japanese spotted fever, South Korea. Emerg Infect Dis. 2006;12:1122–4. Shin SH, Seo HJ, Choi YJ, Choi MK, Kim HC, Klein TA, et al. Detection of Rickettsia monacensis from Ixodes nipponensis collected from rodents in Gyeonggi and Gangwon Provinces, Republic of Korea. Exp Appl Acarol. 2013;61:337–47. Uchida T, Uchiyama T, Kumano K, Walker DH. Rickettsia japonica sp. nov., the etiological agent of spotted fever group rickettsiosis in Japan. Int J Systematic Bacteriol. 1992;42:303–5. Jang WJ, Kim JH, Choi YJ, Jung KD, Kim YG, Lee SH, et al. First serologic evidence of human spotted fever group rickettsiosis in Korea. J Clin Microbiol. 2004;42:2310–3. Jang WJ, Choi YJ, Kim JH, Jung KD, Ryu JS, Lee SH, et al. Seroepidemiology of spotted fever group and typhus group rickettsioses in humans, South Korea. Microbiol Immunol. 2005;49:17–24. Choi YJ, Lee SH, Park KH, Koh YS, Lee KH, Baik HS, et al. Evaluation of PCR-based assay for diagnosis of spotted fever group rickettsiosis in human serum samples. Clin Diagn Lab Immunol. 2005;12:759–63. Lee JHAS, Park HS, Jeong EJ, Choi HG, Jang WJ, Kang SS, et al. Prevalence of spotted fever group Rickettsia from Haemaphysalis ticks in Chungju province. J Bacteriol Virol. 2005;35:203–7. Moon BCJJ, Choi YJ, Kim JE, Seo HJ, Shin EH, Song BGLH, et al. Detection and identification of the spotted fever group rickettsial agents from Haemaphysalis ticks in Jeju Island, Korea. J Bacteriol Virol. 2009;39:317–27. Lee KM, Choi YJ, Shin SH, Choi MK, Song HJ, Kim HC, et al. Spotted fever group Rickettsia closely related to Rickettsia monacensis isolated from ticks in South Jeolla province, Korea. Microbiol Immunol. 2013;57:487–95. Ko S, Kim HC, Yang YC, Chong ST, Richards AL, Sames WJ, et al. Detection of Rickettsia felis and Rickettsia typhi and seasonal prevalence of fleas collected from small mammals at Gyeonggi Province in the Republic of Korea. Vector Borne Zoonotic Dis. 2011;11:1243–51. Chae JS, Yu DH, Shringi S, Klein TA, Kim HC, Chong ST, et al. Microbial pathogens in ticks, rodents and a shrew in northern Gyeonggi-do near the DMZ, Korea. J Vet Sci. 2008;9:285–93. Kim CM, Yi YH, Yu DH, Lee MJ, Cho MR, Desai AR, et al. Tick-borne rickettsial pathogens in ticks and small mammals in Korea. Appl Environ Microbiol. 2006;72:5766–76. Chong ST, Kim HC, Lee IY, Kollars Jr TM, Sancho AR, Sames WJ, et al. Comparison of dragging and sweeping methods for collecting ticks and determining their seasonal distributions for various habitats, Gyeonggi Province, Republic of Korea. J Med Entomol. 2013;50:611–8. Chong ST, Kim HC, Lee IY, Kollars Jr TM, Sancho AR, Sames WJ, et al. Seasonal distribution of ticks in four habitats near the demilitarized zone, Gyeonggi-do (Province), Republic of Korea. Korean J Parasitol. 2013;51:319–25. Yamaguti N, Tipton VJ, Keegan HL, Toshioka S. Ticks of Japan, Korea, and the Ryukyu Islands. Brigham Young Univ Sci Bull, Biol Ser. 1971;15:1–226. Robbins RG, Keirans JE. Systematics and ecology of the subgenus Ixodiopsis (Acari: Ixodidae: Ixodes). Lanham: Thomas Say Foundation Monograph XIV. Entomological Society of America; 1992. p. 159. Gu W, Lampman R, Novak RJ. Assessment of arbovirus vector infection rates using variable size pooling. Med Vet Entomol. 2004;18:200–4. Ishikura M, Ando S, Shinagawa Y, Matsuura K, Hasegawa S, Nakayama T, et al. Phylogenetic analysis of spotted fever group rickettsiae based on gltA, 17-kDa, and rOmpA genes amplified by nested PCR from ticks in Japan. Microbiol Immunol. 2003;47:823–32. Raoult D, Roux V. Rickettsioses as paradigms of new or emerging infectious diseases. Clin Microbiol Rev. 1997;10:694–719. Parola P, Davoust B, Raoult D. Tick- and flea-borne rickettsial emerging zoonoses. Vet Res. 2005;36:469–92. Walker DH. Rickettsiae and rickettsial infections: the current state of knowledge. Clin Infect Dis. 2007;45:S39–44. Tateno M, Sunahara A, Nakanishi N, Izawa M, Matsuo T, Setoguchi A, et al. Molecular survey of arthropod-borne pathogens in ticks obtained from Japanese wildcats. Ticks Tick Borne Dis. 2015;6:281–9. Kang SW, Doan HT, Choe SE, Noh JH, Yoo MS, Reddy KE, et al. Molecular investigation of tick-borne pathogens in ticks from grazing cattle in Korea. Parasitol Int. 2013;62:276–82. Kim KH, Yi J, Oh WS, Kim NH, Choi SJ, Choe PG, et al. Human granulocytic anaplasmosis, South Korea, 2013. Emerg Infect Dis. 2014;20:1708–11. Moon S, Gwack J, Hwang KJ, Kwon D, Kim S, Noh Y, et al. Autochthonous lyme borreliosis in humans and ticks in Korea. Osong Public Health Res Perspect. 2013;4:52–6. Yun SM, Song BG, Choi W, Park WI, Kim SY, Roh JY, et al. Prevalence of tick-borne encephalitis virus in ixodid ticks collected from the Republic of Korea during 2011–2012. Osong Public Health Res Perspect. 2012;3:213–21. Christova I, Van De Pol J, Yazar S, Velo E, Schouls L. Identification of Borrelia burgdorferi sensu lato, Anaplasma and Ehrlichia species, and spotted fever group rickettsiae in ticks from Southeastern Europe. Eur J Clin Microbiol Infect Dis. 2003;22:535–42. Choi YJ, Lee EM, Park JM, Lee KM, Han SH, Kim JK, et al. Molecular detection of various rickettsiae in mites (Acari: Trombiculidae) in southern Jeolla Province Korea. Microbiol Immunol. 2007;51:307–12. Jackson EB, Danauskas JX, Coale MC, Smadel JE. Recovery of Rickettsia akari from the Korean vole Microtus fortis pelliceus. Am J Hyg. 1957;66:301–8. Kim HC, Kim JH, Jo YS, Chong ST, Sames WJ, Klein TA, et al. Records of Ixodes pomeranzevi Serdyukova, 1941 (Acari: Ixodidae) from small mammals in northern Gyeonggi and Gangwon provinces, Republic of Korea. Sys Applied Acarol. 2009;14:129–35. Sames WJ, Kim HC, Chong ST, Lee IY, Apanaskevich DA, Robbins RG, et al. Haemaphysalis (Ornithophysalis) phasiana (Acari: Ixodidae) in the Republic of Korea: two province records and habitat descriptions. Sys Applied Acarol. 2008;13:43–50. Katargina O, Geller J, Ivanova A, Varv K, Tefanova V, Vene S, et al. Detection and identification of Rickettsia species in Ixodes tick populations from Estonia. Ticks Tick Borne Dis. 2015;6:689–94. Suh JH, Kim HC, Yun SM, Lim JW, Kim JH, Chong ST, et al. Detection of SFTS virus in Ixodes nipponensis and Amblyomma testudinarium (Ixodida: Ixodidae) collected from reptiles in the Republic of Korea. J Med Entomol. 2016;53:584–90. Cho BK, Nam HW, Cho SY, Lee WK. A case of tick bite by a spontaneously retreated Ixodes nipponensis. Korean J Parasitol. 1995;33:239–42. Ko JH, Cho DY, Chung BS, Kim SI. Two human cases of tick bite caused by Ixodes nipponensis. Korean J Parasitol. 2002;40:199–203. Jeon WS, Kim HS, Lee JD, Cho SH. Tick bite. Ann Dermatol. 2014;26:127–8. Lee SH, Chai JY, Kho WG, Hong SJ, Chung YD. A human case of tick bite by Ixodes nipponensis on the scalp. Kisaengchunghak Chapchi. 1989;27:67–9. Luce-Fedrow A, Mullins K, Kostick AP, St John HK, Jing J, Richards AL. Strategies for detecting rickettsiae and diagnosing rickettsial diseases. Future Microbiol. 2015;10:537–64. This research was supported by the Center for Disease Control & Prevention, the Ministry of Health & Welfare (grant no. 4800-4838-303), the Armed Forces Health Surveillance Branch, Global Emerging Infections Surveillance and Response Systems (AFHSB-GEIS) work unit A1402 (ALR), and the Medical Department Activity-Korea, 65th Medical Brigade. The opinions expressed herein are those of the authors and are not to be construed as official or reflecting the views of the U.S. Departments of the Army, Navy or Defense. Availability of data and materials The datasets supporting the conclusions of this article are included with NCBI accession numbers: Chungcheong 927 (KX418671, KX418672), Jeolla 958 (KX418673), Jeolla 959 (KX418675, KX418676), Jeolla 960 (KX418677), Jeolla 961 (KX418678), Jeolla 962 (KX418740), Jeolla 964 (KX418765, KX418766), Jeolla 967 (KX418741, KX418742), Jeolla 968 (KX418767, KX418768), Jeolla 969 (KX418743, KX418744), Jeolla 972 (KX418754, KX418755), Jeolla 973 (KX418745, KX418746), Jeolla 979 (KX418756, KX418757), Jeolla 985 (KX418758, KX418759), Jeolla 990 (KX418760, KX418761), Jeolla 1004 (KX418663, KX418664), Jeolla 1046 (KX418747, KX418748), Jeolla 1048 (KX418679, KX418680), Jeolla 1049 (KX418681, KX418682), Jeolla 1050 (KX418683, KX418684), Jeolla 1052 (KX418685, KX418686), Jeolla 1053 (KX418687, KX418688), Jeolla 1055 (KX418689, KX418690), Jeolla 1056 (KX418691, KX418692), Jeolla 1058 (KX418749), Jeolla 1059 (KX418750, KX418751), Jeolla 1060 (KX418693, KX418694), Jeolla 1061 (KX418695, KX418696), Jeolla 1063 (KX418697, KX418698), Jeolla 1064 (KX418699, KX418700), Jeolla 1065 (KX418762, KX418763), Jeolla 1066 (KX418701, KX418702), Jeolla 1067 (KX418703, KX418704), Jeolla 1068 (KX418705, KX418706), Jeolla 1069 (KX418707, KX418708), Jeolla 1070 (KX418709, KX418710), Jeolla 1072 (KX423490), Jeolla 1073 (KX418711, KX418712), Jeolla 1074 (KX418713, KX418714), Jeolla 1075 (KX418715, KX418716), Jeolla 1076 (KX418717, KX418718), Jeolla 1077 (KX418719, KX418720), Jeolla 1078 (KX418721, KX418722), Jeolla 1081 (KX418723, KX418724), Jeolla 1083 (KX418725, KX418726), Jeolla 1092 (KX418727, KX418728), Jeolla 1094 (KX418729, KX418730), Jeolla 1101 (KX418764), Jeolla 1133 (KX418731, KX418732), Chungcheong 1147 (KX418657, KX418658), Chungcheong 1155 (KX418665, KX418666), Jeolla 1167 (KX418752, KX418753), Jeolla 1168 (KX418733, KX418734), Jeolla 1175 (KX418659, KX418660), Jeolla 1176 (KX418735, KX418736), Jeolla 1178 (KX418737, KX418738), Jeolla 1196 (KX418667, KX418668), Jeolla 1199 (KX418661, KX418662), Jeolla 1200 (KX418669, KX418670), Jeolla 1208 (KX418739). Conceived the study, drafted the manuscript, and performed the experiments: YTN, YSL, HKL and SYK. Collected and identified ticks: TAK, HCK, and STC. Reviewed the manuscript: TN, HCK, TAK, ALR, JJ and HKL. All authors read and approved the final manuscript. The authors declare that they have no competing interests. Consent for publication Ethics approval and consent to participate Rights and permissions Open Access This article is distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/), which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided you give appropriate credit to the original author(s) and the source, provide a link to the Creative Commons license, and indicate if changes were made. The Creative Commons Public Domain Dedication waiver (http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) applies to the data made available in this article, unless otherwise stated. About this article Cite this article Noh, Y., Lee, Y.S., Kim, HC. et al. Molecular detection of Rickettsia species in ticks collected from the southwestern provinces of the Republic of Korea. Parasites Vectors 10, 20 (2017). https://doi.org/10.1186/s13071-016-1955-x - Spotted fever group rickettsiae - Ixodid ticks - 17 kDa antigen gene
by Dr. Ron Moseley The following article is provided by Ebed Publishing. *Note: Endnotes appear at the end of the article. Example: (1). Dr. Ron Moseley Contrary to what some believe, the first fifteen bishops of the original Church at Jerusalem were Jewish. In his Ecclesiastical History, Eusebius tells us that "the church at Jerusalem, at first formed of the circumcision, came later to be formed of Gentile Christians, and the whole church under them, consisted of faithful Hebrews who continued from the time of the apostles, until the siege of Jerusalem."(1) In his second-century historical work, Hegesippus describes the rivalry between a man named Thebouthis and others, seeking the position of bishop after the death of James, who was said to be the first pastor at Jerusalem.(2) According to Hegesippus, the Hebrew Christians finally chose Simeon, who was a cousin of the Lord, to succeed James. Epiphanius lists the remaining thirteen Jewish pastors of the Jerusalem Church as Justus, Zaccheus, Tobias, Benjamin, John, Mathias, Philip, Seneca, Justus, Levi, Ephrem, Joseph, and Jude, completing the historical record all the way up to the Bar Kochba Revolt (A.D. 132-135).(3) These Jewish relatives of Jesus who led the early Church were called Desposynoi, meaning "heirs," and were often persecuted because of their Davidic lineage and their relationship to the Messiah. During the reign of Hadrian (A.D. 117-138), the Jewish nation was crushed in what came to be called the Second Jewish War. Jerusalem was renamed Aelia Capitolina by the Romans, and Jews were forbidden to enter the city for one hundred years. As these dramatic events were unfolding, many of the Hebrew Christians fled to the mountains of Pella, located in present-day Jordan, in obedience to Christ's instruction found in Matthew 24:16. This left only Gentile believers in control of the Church for the first time, and they quickly appointed a man named Mark as Jerusalem's first non-Jewish pastor.(4) (5) According to Baring Gould's history, the community of believers in exile, led by James and Simeon, was still clinging tightly to the old traditions while crouched at Pella.(6) Since the Hebrew Christians were not completely removed from Jerusalem until well into the second century, for its first one hundred years, the Church remained very much a part of first-century Judaism, and its leaders stayed involved in many Jewish affairs. There was no immediate split from the synagogue, as evidenced by Jesus' warning that some synagogues would punish His followers for preaching a different brand of Judaism ( Matthew 10:17). We know that this scourging by synagogue leaders was not an abnormal part of normative Judaism since it is mentioned a number of times in early rabbinical literature.(7) The structure of the local synagogues was carried over directly into the structure of the early Church. A president, deacons, a precentor (song leader), and teachers can all be found in both the synagogue and the early Church. We know from early sources that there were between 394 and 480 synagogues in Jerusalem during the first century, one being located within the precincts of the Temple itself.(8) This is undoubtedly why the early pattern of the Church had its origins in the Jewish synagogue. Note the following similarities between the ancient synagogue and the early Church. The principle leader of a synagogue was the nasi or president. In the Christian congregation, the leaders were still called president rather than pastor, as late as A.D. 150, by such non-Jewish writers as Justin Martyr.(9) In the synagogue structure, three of these leaders would join together to form a tribunal for judging cases concerning money, theft, immorality, admission of proselytes, laying on of hands, and a host of other things mentioned in the Sanhedrin section of the Mishnah. These men were known as the "rulers of the synagogue" because they took on the chief care of things, a title mentioned several times in the teachings of Jesus (Mark 5:3 and Luke 8:41). This practice was still in use among the Gentile congregations at Corinth under the apostleship of Paul, where he spoke of the court within the congregation (1 Corinthians 6:1-2). The nasi was the administrator of the synagogue, and we know that James, the half-brother of Jesus, was the nasi of the early Church at Jerusalem. Early documents such as the Didache suggest that the churches in Asia Minor and Greece treated the Church at Jerusalem with much the same authority as the synagogues did the Sanhedrin.(10) (11) There also was a public minister of the synagogue called a chazen who prayed, preached behind a wooden pulpit, and took care of the general oversight of the reading of the Law and other congregational duties. He did not read the Law, but stood by the one who did, to correct and oversee, ensuring that it was done properly. He selected seven readers each week who were well-educated in the Hebrew Scriptures. The group consisted of one priest, one Levite, and five regular Israelites (Luke 4:16). The terms overseer of the congregation, angel of the church, and minister of the synagogue all referred to this position.(12) There were also three men known as almoners or parnasin who cared for the poor and distributed alms and were expected to be scholars of the Scriptures. Since they were also known as gabbay tzedikah, it may be from this function that we get the modern term deacon. Some scholars hold that it was from these seven, the president, the ruler, the overseer, the chazen, and the three parnas, that the idea of selecting "seven good men of honest report, full of the Holy Ghost and wisdom" came about (Acts 6:3). These men were appointed over the business affairs of the Church so the apostles would not have to be distracted from their study of the Scriptures and prayer. In Jewish literature the question is asked, "Who is a scholar worthy of being appointed Parnas?" The answer is "He who is asked about a law from any source, and is able to give an answer."(13) In modern times the Jews use this term to refer to a lay person, who is also called an elder. Another function in the ancient synagogue was the shaliach, or announcer. From this position we get the term apostle, meaning one who is sent forth to announce the gospel, a role equivalent to that of our modern missionaries. There was also the maggid, a migratory evangelist of the first century who spoke to various congregations, and the batlanim, a scholarly teacher who was either independently wealthy or on some type of support so he would be available to provide the congregation with accurate academics and answers. There had to be at least ten batlanim in every congregation of one hundred and twenty members. There was even a tradition that a synagogue service could not commence without ten men present.(14) Jesus may have been referring to this tradition when He said, "Where two or three are gathered in My name, there am I in the midst of them" (Matthew 18:20). Next, there was the zakin, a word meaning "old," more in the since of maturity than age. This person provided counsel to the people and was similar to a modern-day pastor or elder. In Judaism, those who had reached the age of forty were considered to have attained understanding, and those who were over fifty were considered worthy to counsel the younger people.(15) The rabbi was a prophet after the manner of the post-exilic prophets of Judaism. He carried the responsibility of reading and preaching the Word and exhorting and edifying the people (1 Corinthians 14:3). There was also the interpreter, known as the meturganim. This was a person skilled in languages who stood by the one reading the Law or teaching in a Bet Midrash (a house of study) to interpret into the lingua franca of that day the Hebrew that was being spoken. The use of an interpreter goes back to the time of Ezra, when the interpreter was said to have added the meaning. The Talmud gives many details of the interpreter's duties in the synagogue.(16) It is from this concept that we understand Jesus' words, "What you hear in the ear, preach upon the housetops" (Matthew 10:27). This phrase was easily understood by those who were familiar with the system of study in the Bet Midrash, where the teacher would literally speak the message in the interpreter's ear, who would then shout it out to others, both inside the classroom and out. Besides the organizational structure of the early Church having its roots in the synagogue, many of its customs were also Jewish. All of the initial Christians were either Jews by birth or by conversion, and apparently there were no Gentile members for at least the first ten years. This conclusion is implied by several texts, including Acts 10, where, approximately ten years after His ascension, the Lord had to instruct Peter three times to go into the house of a Gentile. This strongly suggests that the Jewish Church had been meeting house to house and breaking bread only in Jewish homes up to the time (Acts 2:42-26). Furthermore, when Peter entered the house of Cornelius, he explained to his household that he still understood it to be unlawful for a Jew to enter the house of a non-Jew (Acts 10:28). Further evidence of the Jewishness of the early believers can be found in an incident recorded in Acts 21:20, an incident which occurred some twenty-five years after the Lord's ascension. When Paul returned to Jerusalem with some charitable contributions for the believers, he was told that during his absence many thousands of Jews had become believers, yet they continued to be staunch upholders of the Law. Not only were the first fifteen elders of the Jerusalem Church Jewish, but so were the initial names applied to the early congregations. The term Minim, meaning "heretics" in Hebrew, was used by some in the Jewish community to describe the new believers. The Way, used in Acts 21:14 and 22, was a Messianic term taken from texts such as Isaiah 40:2, which refers to preparing "the way of the Lord." The Nazoraioi is Greek for Nazarenes (Acts 24:5) and is obviously derived from Jesus' Jewish hometown. The term Messianists is derived directly from the Hebrew word Messiah. Epiphanius' history says that before the believers were called Christians, they were for a short time known by the title Iessaioi, probably derived from the name Jesus, (17) a name saturated with the idea of salvation. Each of these names has a Hebraic background and is closely related to an Old Testament text. The word Christian does not come from the Hebrew word for Anointed One but from a Greek word, and was not used by the Jerusalem Church at all. Christian was first used as a Gentile title for the believers at Antioch some forty to forty- five years into the first century (Acts 11:26). The term "were called" suggests that the name was coined by those outside the Church, perhaps to distinguish the disciples of Christ from unconverted Gentiles, as well as from other branches of Judaism. There is no evidence that the term was used extensively as a self-designation by the early Church, since it is only used three times in the New Testament and only once by a believer (Acts 11:26, 26:28, and 1 Peter 4:16). The word Christian does a not appear consistently as a self-designation until the Didache,(18) and was used later by Ignatius during the late first or early second century.(19) The reason this term was not used earlier may be explained by a letter from the Roman Governor Pliny the Younger to Emperor Trajan around the year A.D. 112. The letter indicates that those identifying with this name were killed.(20) In examining the Jewish roots of the Church, it is important to differentiate between the Hebrew Christians, such as the Nazarenes and Messianists at the beginning, and the various groups of Ebionites with Judaizing traits, which were active around the turn of the first century. The early Hebrew Church was composed of those who believed in justification by faith as well as those who stressed traditions that involved legalism. Although most Jewish believers continued to keep the Sabbath and the various laws that differentiated them from non-Jews, strictly as an identification code, they did not require it for their non-Jewish converts. This identification as a Jew had nothing to do with salvation, but was kept by Jews as a reminder of the special eternal Covenant that God had made with them as a chosen people. The Covenant reminded God's people that they were the guardians of the Holy Land and were obliged to maintain and preserve the Law (Genesis 15:18, 17:7-10, Deuteronomy 7:6, Psalms 105:45, Ezekiel 16:6, Isaiah 44:1 and Romans 3:1-2). After an investigation of all Scripture relating to Israel, it appears that the chosen people status was not awarded as a special privilege, but because the people of Israel could be trusted to preserve the Law of God (Psalms 105:45). Although some 170 of the 613 Laws of the Torah apply to moral and ethical matters, few Christians recognize them as apart of modern theology and it has fallen to the Jewish people to preserve this aspect of God's Law until the present. Chapter One 25 Teaching Questions Follow in the Text. In order to make this book a viable part of your studies, Ron included questions that may be used in discussion within a group, or for your own enrichment and review. 20 Endnotes for Chapter One: (1) Isaac Boyle, trans., Eusebius' Ecclesiastical History, H.E. 5 (Grand Rapids: Baker Book House, l974), pp. 4-6. (2) Ibid., H. E.: 3, 32,6. (3) Us, H.E.IV.5. (4) Eus, H.E.III 5,3; Epiph.paw.29:7,7;30:2,7. (5) Ibid., H.E. 4,6. (6) Baring, Gould, "Schonfield's History," Lost and Hostile History, (London: Duckworth Publications, 1936), p. 35. (7) Rabbi Isidore Epstein, ed., Soncino Talmud, Sanh. 9:6; Yev. 90 (London: Soncino Press, 1948). (8) Jerusalem Talmud, Meg. 3:1; Ket. 105a; Sot. 7:7,8; Yoma 7:1 (London: Soncino Press, 1948). (9) Alexander Roberts, ed., Anti-Nicene Fathers, Vol. I (Grand Rapids: Eerdmans Publishing Company), p.186. (10) Roswell Hitchcock, ed., Didache 8, (Willits, CA: Eastern Orthodox Publishers, 1989), chapters 11-15. (11) Issac Boyle, trans., Eusebius' Ecclesiastical History 3.25.4 (Grand Rapids; Baker Book House, 1974). (12) John Lightfoot, "Commentary on the New Testament from the Talmud and Hebraica," Hebraica, Vol. II., Rev. 3:1,7,14 (Peabody, MA: Hendrickson Publications, 1979), pp. 89-99. (13) Rabbi Isidore Epstein, ed., Soncino Talmud, Shab. 114a (London: Soncino Press, 1948). (14) Lightfoot, op.cit., p.89. (15) Philip Blackman, ed., Mishnah, I Pet. 5:5; I Tim. 5:1; Avot 5:21 (New York: Judaica Press, 1983). (16) Rabbi Isidore Epstein, ed., Soncino Talmud, Meg. 4; Maimon.Tephillah, 12; Massecheth Soph. 10 (London: Soncino Press, 1948). (17) Ray Pritz, Nazarene Jewish Christianity (Jerusalem: magnes Press, Hebrew University, 1992), p. 13. (18) Roswell Hitchcock, ed., Didache, 12:4 (Willits, CA: Eastern Orthodox Publishers, 1989). (19) David Freedman, ed., Anchor Bible Dictionary, Vol. I, (New York: Doubleday, 1992), pp. 925-26. (20) David Freedman, ed., "Pliny Letters 10:96," Anchor Bible Dictionary, Vol. I (New York: Doubleday), p. 926. Back to the Magazine Index
Aboriginal Australians: A History Since 1788 – Richard Broome Long before European settlement, Australia was home to the Aboriginal people who lived happily. However, it was the black-white encounters from 1788 that the Aboriginal people realised the changes in their country with the creation of a new society, a society where there are winners as well as losers. From the perspective of an original Australian, Richard Broome explores the survival of the Aboriginal culture and the resistance and struggle that met the people. Since the first edition in 1982, there have been three following editions covering more stories from the ‘Intervention’ to the landmark apology by the Federal Parliament to the ‘Stolen Generation’. Fight for Liberty and Freedom – John Maynard In 1924, the first ‘politically organised and united all-Aboriginal activist group was the Australian Aboriginal Progressive Association (AAPA)’, led by Frederick Maynard. This was the first time in colonised history that Aboriginal people made their voices heard to the public, from street rallies to newspaper coverage and letters and petitions to the government. Since then, the AAPA has continued to support their original rights from the Aboriginal right to land and the acquisition of citizenship rights to their cultural identity. John Maynard’s Fight for Liberty and Freedom makes a huge contribution to understanding the country’s social and political history from an Aboriginal perspective. Blue Mountains Dreaming: The Aboriginal Heritage – Eugene Stockton Within 30 years, the way of life and the country they loved changed all so drastically. Prior to 1788, the Aborigines of the Blue Mountains had never come into contact with Europeans, but as they began to explore, cultural sites and arrangements were taken over. The traditional lifestyle the Gundungurra and Darug people of the Blue Mountains was changed, forcing them to adapt to the new ‘white culture’. Eugene Stockton builds on previous research in this second edition, with further references to Aboriginal presence in the region dating back to prehistoric times. Forgotten War – Henry Reynolds ‘Aborigines who fought for the white man are remembered with reverence. The many more who fought against him are forgotten.’ But why is this the case? Henry Reynolds researches the wars and battles fought between the Aboriginal people and the European settlers over Australia. It is believed that these wars were over great conflicts that caused a high level of violence on both sides; however, this is the part of history that is never spoken. In reading Forgotten War, you will begin to question why Australians can commemorate those who fought in both World Wars and other conflicts but cannot acknowledge what occurred on their own land. Survival in our Own Land – Christobel Mattingley Ever wondered how the Europeans (Goonyas) were viewed by Aboriginal people? Christobel Mattingley writes Survival in our Own Land from the perspective of the Nungas, the Aboriginal people from South Australia, exploring the invaders’ placement of laws and policies, and the effect this had on their people. This book features stories upon stories, alongside prose and poetry, from around 150 Nungas, telling their very real stories, many of which have never been published. From the imposition of clothes, employment and education to land rights and gender discrimination, each story illustrates the destruction of their culture. Follow the Rabbit-Proof Fence – Doris Pilkington (Nugi Garimara) The Aboriginal Protection Act of 1897 allowed authorities from the European colonies to remove every Aboriginal within any district and keep them within ‘reserves’. This led to many Aboriginal and half-caste children to be taken away from their families – known today as the Stolen Generation. Follow the Rabbit-Proof Fence tells the story of three half-caste girls who were forcibly removed, joining many children who would never see their families again. The genuine authenticity of the book draws readers in, allowing them to follow the girls as they escape and follow the rabbit-proof fence back to their family. This iconic story (and film) will change your understanding and perspective of Australia’s history.
There are two silent killer diseases that lie within the body- high blood pressure and diabetes. Hypoglycaemia is another word for diabetes and this metabolic disorder is a result of improper glucose metabolism in the body. Hunger is satiated with food and whatever we eat is converted to calories and sugar in the body. This glucose is carried via the blood stream to different organs and acts as an energy booster for them, prompting them to perform their functions but what happens if the sugar lies in the blood in excess? The body cells absorb glucose and use it for production of energy. This glucose in the blood can be used only if there is insulin hormone in the body. Insulin is produced by the pancreas and if it is not produced or is available in improper quantities, then the unused sugar in blood starts to increase and damage the organs. Heart and kidney are especially vulnerable to glucose and can work properly only if the insulin is processed properly by organs of body. Don’t let the glucose levels rise in the body; get a timely diagnosis so that you can start taking conventional or diabetes ayurvedic cure by Patanjali on time. Your body is precious and can get destroyed by high glucose levels, protect it now! Sometimes the insulin cannot be processed properly by the body. This also causes the sugar levels to rise. Daily routine and lifestyle changes are compulsory for the diabetics to be able to process insulin properly. The immune system may get compromised and other illnesses may take over if the glucose levels of the body keep rising. Proper exercise and shedding of calories become a must for proper organ functioning of a diabetic. The calorie count has to be kept under control at all times. A proper exercise regime helps in adequate absorption of medicines and appropriate functioning of organs. Many people end up eating too much and too heavy if they are stressed out. This causes an upheaval in the sugar levels of the body. Encourage the person with increased glucose levels to eat more green leafy vegetables and reduce the intake of carbohydrates and fats. Guava, jamun, papaya, musk melon, citric fruits and apple are better than the rest of the fruits because they contain less of sugar. Bitter gourd, gourd, fenugreek are very good for diabetic people. A diabetic needs to be very careful about the diet and must always carry a sugar sweet in the pocket to eat whenever the sugar falls low. Regular sleep is imperative to keep the body functioning properly. Get your sugar tests done if you are urinating frequently. Getting very thirsty and feeling excessive fatigue needs to be checked at the earliest. Diabetes also leads to skin itching and unhealed wounds. Ayurvedic treatments like diabetes ayurvedic cure by Patanjali offer Divya Madhunashini vati and Divya Shilajeet Sat that is helpful in controlling Diabetes by taking care of the blood sugar levels.
The English Foxhound is considered to be the classic British pack hound, which was used in the 6th century to hunt a red fox, usually in large packs. Even today, this is one of the favorite pastimes of the English nobility. This breed was never designed to be a family companion. On the contrary, this is a working dog, always willing to perform any given task. In 1909, the English Foxhound was officially recognized by the American Kennel Club. Height: 23-25 inches Weight: 60-75 pounds Lifespan: 10-13 years The English Foxhound dog is medium in size and quite muscular. Its head is bony, with a broad skull. The nose is well developed. The English Foxhound has large eyes and pendulous ears that are positioned close to his cheeks. The neck should be long and muscular. English Foxhounds have powerful jaws with a precisely overlapping scissor bite. Their shoulders are strong and well-muscled, but not too massive. Comparable Breed The Beagle and American Foxhound. The English Foxhound has a typical hound personality. He is independently-minded and sometimes prone to excessive stubbornness. Dogs of this breed are friendly and very lively. They show great tolerance in dealing with other dogs, which is the essential characteristic of a typical pack dog. Due to his great passion for the hunt, this the English Foxhound is not very popular as a family pet. This sturdy dog is usually kept for red fox hunting, but it also makes a good watchdog. English Foxhounds do well with children but are not recommended for families with very small children. Moreover, they are perfect for families who already have other dog breeds. The English Foxhounds are generally very healthy. However, these dogs can suffer from canine hip dysplasia, renal disease (kidney disease) and epilepsy. Generally, representatives of this breed are not prone to genetic diseases. The English Foxhound has a life expectancy of 10 to 13 years. Weight / Height The male English Foxhound dog breed’s height is around 23 – 25 inches and weighs around 60 and 75 pounds. Female English Foxhound dogs can reach a size from 23 – 24 inches and weighs between 60 and 75 pounds. Coat / Care: The English Foxhound is covered with a short coat, which is dense and shiny. This breed comes in a variety of colors, including different combinations of white, black and brown. No markings are allowed. The short coat is not too demanding since English Foxhounds are low shedders. Hence, regular brushing is enough. This will reduce the hair loss and keep your dog clean. The English Foxhound is very friendly and affectionate. He should undergo early socialization and education, which requires patience and consistency. This breed of dog is very agile, courageous and passionate in hunting, which requires a strong, dominant coach. English Foxhounds are very social, but since these dogs have a great passion for hunting and prefer to live with other dogs in the pack, they are not suitable for living indoors. In general, the English Foxhound should live together with other dogs in the kennel. This breed could live in the house under special conditions. Hence, a lot of movement and mental work are a must for the English Foxhound, at least 30 to 60 minutes every day. |Origin:||United Kingdom, Canada| |Average size:||Large Dog Breed| |Color:||Combinations of Black, White, Tan| |Energy Level:||Very active working dog| |Trainability:||This dog is easy to train| |Barking Level:||Low – When Necessary| |Personality:||Sociable, Affectionate and Gentle| |AKC Dog Ranking:||187th Most popular dog breed| |Good family dog:||Yes, good with socialization| |Good with other dogs:||Yes, good with socialization| |Good with children:||Yes – but socialization is essential| |Good with strangers:||Yes – Friendly with strangers| |Good apartment dog:||Low – this is not an apartment dog| Photo Credit: ccho/Flickr
|In this week you will: - start setting up your personal learning environment by getting a twitter account, and - learn about the formulation of the United Nations, its role, structure and mandate. In preparation for your first tutorials next week, you must: - Watch the 2 part lecture on the History of International Cooperation - Do Activity 1 and then watch the video on the Structure of the United Nations - Watch the final lecture on the Creation of the United Nations If you have time, take a look at the extension exercises. Make sure that you write notes as you go and note down any questions that you have to raise in tutorials and/or by tweeting out to the group. Lectures and Viewings Lecture - History of International Cooperation (Part 1) Lecture - History of International Cooperation (Part 2) |What do you think the UN does? - Grab a pen and paper and jot down a list of things you think the UN does, based on your general knowledge. - Next watch the video presentations below, and jot down anything new that you hear - How close was your original list? What other activities or information did you note down as new? - Pick one or two of your observations and tweet out to the group making sure to add #UOWMUN Structure of the United Nations video Lecture - The Creation of the United Nations
Revisiting Bloom’s Taxonomy In the 1950’s Benjamin Bloom and other researchers collaborated to create what is known as Bloom’s Taxonomy of cognitive processes. This has been revised over the years and includes today six cognitive dimensions: - Remember: recall facts and basic concepts (e.g., define, list, state) - Understand: explain ideas or concepts (e.g., describe, explain, summarize) - Apply: use information in new situations (e.g., solve, complete, change) - Analyze: draw connections among ideas (e.g., contrast, categorize, connect) - Evaluate: justify a stand or decision (e.g., criticize, defend, prioritize) - Create: produce new or original work (e.g., design, modify, write) The accompanying verbs can be used to develop and organize learning goals and objectives for our curricula, courses, and daily lesson plans. Many UP faculty already use Bloom’s Taxonomy as a guide for planning, but we can enhance the use of Bloom’s Taxonomy by considering our objectives through the lens of knowledge dimensions that Anderson and Krathwohl added to the taxonomy in 2001. The four dimensions are: - Factual knowledge (basic elements to learn in the discipline) - Conceptual knowledge (interrelationships between basic elements within a larger context) - Procedural knowledge (methods in the discipline) - Metacognitive knowledge (awareness of how learning work in relation to one’s self) Anderson and Krathwohl developed a matrix for combining cognitive processes and knowledge dimensions that can be adapted when planning courses and lessons. As faculty, we can adapt this matrix in our own lesson planning. Here’s an example from a 300-level applied linguistics course that I teach in the Department of International Languages and Cultures. Basic concept: Individual differences in language learning Knowledge Dimension: Factual knowledge Bloom’s Taxonomy Cognitive Process: Remember (Related actions verbs: define, list, state, recall, identify) Learning Goal: Students can accurately define individual differences and list examples. Assessment: Students take a low-stakes quiz in which they define individual differences and provide examples they recall from the reading and group work activity. - Students read section on individual differences in How Languages are Learned respond to reading prompts before class. - In class, students work in groups to identify individual differences in written profiles of learners and present their findings. Intersecting with multiple knowledge dimensions As faculty, we can also run concepts and theories we teach through both multiple knowledge and cognitive process dimensions as we plan instruction. Let’s take, for example, the social cultural theoretical perspective of second language acquisition from the same applied linguistics course Factual dimension / Remember Instructor provides learning experiences so that students practice recalling definitions of terms and characteristics and elements of the theory. Conceptual dimension / Understand Students participate in learning experiences that guide them to start explaining principles and models of the social cultural perspective. It’s important to note that at this level, the students are not just restating an author’s or instructor’s explanation; that would be remembering. Rather, they are using concepts, terms, and paraphrasing to explain the concept or theory. Procedural dimension / Analyze Eventually, students point out passages in a research text that indicate the linguistics researcher is writing from the social cultural perspective of second language learning. They are using their knowledge of the theory as an analytical tool. Metacognitive dimension / Apply Finally, the instructor can work with students to develop and apply motivational and language learning strategies that are based on a social cultural perspective of second language learning. The above processes can also be reorganized into a class lesson planning tool. Application in your teaching The combination of Bloom’s Taxonomy and knowledge dimensions create a powerful approach for your faculty toolbox in support of our efforts to provide the excellent undergraduate education opportunities to our students. For more about deploying Bloom’s Taxonomy and the four dimensions of knowledge, check out Laurie Richlin’s Blueprint for Learning: Construction College Courses to Facilitate, Assess, and Document Learning (2006), one of the sources of today’s TLC blog entry. If you would like to explore in more detail using dimensions and Bloom’s Taxonomy verbs in a lesson planning form, download this MS Word version. Jeffrey White directs the Learning Commons in the Shepard Academic Resource Center in Buckley Center 163, where he trains tutors to reach Level 1 of the International Tutor Training Program Certification. He also teaches German, an applied linguistics course, and a preparation course for study abroad in the Department of International Languages and Cultures. Jeffrey is currently the president-elect of the Northwest College Reading and Learning Association. He is happy to meet over coffee or lunch to discuss course and lesson design, training, and teaching in higher education and can be reached at email@example.com.
Harvard University PRC collaborates with the YMCA to increase children’s physical activity and provide healthier food options in afterschool programs. An encyclopedia excerpt describes the history, partnerships, and contributions of the PRC Program. Tulane University PRC recognized for coalition that conducts activities to improve the conditions for pedestrians in New Orleans, Louisiana. University of Minnesota researcher featured in scientific journal for contributions to adolescent health research. Changes in YMCA Afterschool Programs Increase Children's Physical Activity and Healthy Food OptionsHarvard University: Prevention Research Center on Nutrition and Physical Activity Addresses CDC Winnable Battle: Nutrition, physical activity, and obesity YMCA-Harvard Afterschool Food and Fitness Project - YMCA learning collaboratives, an approach to bringing about organizational change, were found to be promising for translating obesity prevention science into practices for use in YMCA afterschool programs - Learning collaboratives helped staff develop the skills needed to work toward creating a healthy afterschool environment by achieving simple health-related program standards - Before and after studies of selected afterschool programs showed significant improvements in the healthfulness of snacks served and the physical activity levels of children in these programs www.foodandfun.org, includes tip sheets, assessment guides, recipe packets, and snack planning tools to help staff make inexpensive, effective program changes. The program was part of a large-scale initiative to improve border health. The Initiative included components targeting clinicians, schools, persons with diabetes and their families, and the community; Pasos Adelante was the community component. The program was developed in partnership with the Mariposa Community Health Center in Nogales, Arizona, the Regional Center for Border Health, Inc., the Western Arizona Area Health Education Center, and faculty and staff at the University of Arizona Mel and Enid Zuckerman College of Public Health. - Menus of snacks and beverages served at 7 YMCA afterschool programs located in 5 states were collected over a 14-month period.6 The quality of snacks and beverages were analyzed at baseline (fall 2005), midway (spring 2006), and post-intervention (fall 2006). Compared to baseline values, at post- intervention, weekly servings of fruits and vegetables significantly increased (1.3 to 3.9, p=0.02), while significant decreases were seen in weekly servings of desserts (1.3 to 0.5, p=0.05), foods with added sugars (3.9 to 2.4, p=0.03), and foods with trans fats (2.6 to 0.7, p=0.01). Pre-intervention, one site served sugar-sweetened beverages; post- intervention, no sites did—instead, all sites served water. At baseline, each site had achieved at least 1 of the 5 healthy eating standards; post-intervention all sites had achieved at least 2 of the standards. Although not statistically significant, average calories in snacks and beverages offered decreased from 300.3 kcal before the intervention to 266.9 kcal after. - An analysis of the price and healthfulness of snacks served in a sample of 32 YMCA afterschool programs in 4 U.S. metropolitan areas found that healthful snacks achieving the 5 healthy eating standards were 50% more expensive than less-healthful snacks.7 Fruits and canned or frozen vegetables contributed to significantly higher snack price. Analyses showed that replacing these items with low-priced fresh vegetables and replacing refined grains with whole grains would increase the healthfulness of snacks without causing increases in price. Analyses also identified a range of repeatedly served, inexpensive, healthful snacks that were served as part of regular, ongoing afterschool programs. Thus, healthful foods and snack combinations could be served at or below the price of less-healthful snacks. In particular, substituting tap water for 100% juice produced savings that could be used toward the purchase of healthful foods, such as apples. - The physical activity intervention consisted of using the learning collaborative process and the Food & Fun After School curriculum.8 The intervention was implemented in 16 afterschool programs in four U.S. metropolitan areas. Sixteen matched control afterschool programs were selected from the same metropolitan areas for comparison. The control programs were those in place at the time the control was selected; the amount and level of physical activity of children in these programs varied. Children's physical activity was measured by accelerometers worn at baseline (fall 2006) and follow up (spring 2007). Children at intervention sites showed greater increases in minutes of combined moderate and vigorous physical activity (10.5 minutes more per day, p=0.017) than children in control sites. These differences translated into an average additional energy expenditure of 25 kcal a day for a child in an intervention setting. - Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Data and Statistics: Obesity Rates Among All Children in the United States. http://www.cdc.gov/obesity/childhood/data.html. Accessed June 22, 2012 . - Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Overweight and Obesity: Basics About Childhood Obesity. http://www.cdc.gov/obesity/childhood/basics.html. Accessed January 29, 2012. - Wang YC, Gortmaker SL, Sobol AM, Kuntz KM. Estimating the energy gap among US children: a counterfactual approach. Pediatrics. 2006;118(6):e1721-33. - Institute for Healthcare Improvement.The Breakthrough Series: IHI's Collaborative Model for Achieving Breakthrough Improvement. http://www.ihi.org/knowledge/Pages/IHIWhitePapers/ - Wiecha JL, Nelson TF, Roth BA, Glashagel J, Vaughan L. Disseminating health promotion practices in afterschool programs through YMCA learning collaboratives. American Journal of Health Promotion. 2010;24(3):190-8. - Mozaffarian RS, Wiecha JL, Roth BA, Nelson TF, Lee RM, Gortmaker SL. Impact of an organizational intervention designed to improve snack and beverage quality in YMCA after-school programs. American Journal of Public Health. 2010;100(5):925-32. - Mozaffarian RS, Andry A, Lee RM, Wiecha JL, Gortmaker SL. Price and healthfulness of snacks in 32YMCA after-school programs in 4 US metropolitan areas 2006–2008. Preventing Chronic Disease. 2012;9:110097. - Gortmaker SL, Lee RM, Mozaffarian RS, Sobol A, Nelson TF, Roth BA, Wiecha JL. Effect of an after-school intervention on increases in children's physical activity. Medicine & Science in Sports & Exercise. 2012;44(3):450-7.
A new study by the United Nations health agency and its partners has found that fewer newborns are dying worldwide but progress is too slow and Africa in particular is being left further behind. “The first week of life is the riskiest week for newborns, and yet many countries are only just beginning post-natal care programmes to reach mothers and babies at this critical time,” the World Health Organization (WHO) said in a news release. Newborn deaths decreased from 4.6 million in 1990 to 3.3 million in 2009, and fell slightly faster in the years since 2000, according to the study, led by researchers from WHO, Save the Children and the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine and published today in the medical journal PLoS Medicine. The study, which covers 20 years and all 193 WHO member States, found that newborn deaths – deaths in the first four weeks of life (neonatal period) – today account for 41 per cent of all child deaths before the age of five. Almost 99 per of newborn deaths occur in the developing world, with more than half taking place in just five large countries – India, Nigeria, Pakistan, China and the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC). India alone has more than 900,000 newborn deaths per year, nearly 28 per cent of the global total, WHO noted. Nigeria, the world’s seventh most populous country, now ranks second in newborn deaths – up from fifth in 1990. Africa has seen the slowest progress of any region in the world, with a reduction of just 1 per cent per year, the agency said. Among the 15 countries with more than 39 neonatal deaths per 1,000 live births, 12 were from the WHO African Region – Angola, Burundi, Chad, the Central African Republic (CAR), DRC, Equatorial Guinea, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Mali, Mauritania, Mozambique, and Sierra Leone – plus Afghanistan, Pakistan and Somalia. At the current rate of progress it would take the African continent more than 150 years to reach United States or United Kingdom newborn survival levels, according to WHO. The agency noted that an increase in investment in health care for women and children in the last decade – when the anti-poverty targets known as the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) were set – contributed to more rapid progress for the survival of mothers and children under the age of five than for newborns. Three quarters of neonatal deaths around the world are caused by pre-term delivery, asphyxia and severe infections, such as sepsis and pneumonia. WHO pointed out that two thirds or more of these deaths can be prevented with existing interventions. “Newborn survival is being left behind despite well-documented, cost-effective solutions to prevent these deaths,” says Flavia Bustreo, WHO Assistant Director-General for Family, Women’s and Children’s Health. “With four years to achieve the Millennium Development Goals, more attention and action for newborns is critical,” she said, referring to the 2015 target date for achieving the MDGs.
Meaning of  restore, return to, revert Learn Japanese kanji:  Meaning: restore, return to, revert. 438 of 2,500 most used kanji in newspapers. How to write 復 - stroke order: Stroke Count: 12 Access ALL extra downloads, ebooks, and study guides by supporting JLPT Sensei on Patreon. JLPT N2 Study Guide JLPT N2 Grammar Master [e-book] Complete Study Guide This e-book includes every grammar point you need to know in order to pass the JLPT N2, with detailed usage notes and numerous example sentences. Pages: 417, lessons: 195
THE SUPERNATURAL POWER OF THE ARK OF THE COVENANT AND OTHER ANCIENT ASTRONAUT MYSTERIES Recent programs on the History Channel and elsewhere on cable television have helped popularize the concept that extraterrestrials have been visiting Earth since time immemorial and have been responsible for many of the advancements of human civilization. Once the mainstay of writers such as Erich von Daniken, Brinsley Le Poer Trench and W.R. Drake, the concept has since inspired big budget movie epics and television shows like “Ancient Aliens” and, more recently, “In Search Of Aliens,” hosted by the "wild-haired" Giorgios Tsoukalos. Steven Spielberg first burned images of the Ark of the Covenant into our collective imagination when his 1981 mega-hit “Raiders of the Lost Ark” was unleashed upon the public. The movie popularized the mysterious Ark for a more secular audience as Harrison Ford found himself in conflict with Nazi archaeologists who sought to conquer the world by using the supernatural powers of the Ark as a terrorist weapon. Recently, journalist Timothy Beckley and his always prolific publishing house Inner Light - Global Communications set out to explore the mysteries of the Ark and other super-weapons of antiquity to determine if the “sky gods” were behind the development of these highly advanced implements of destruction – or if humankind had somehow been able to conjure them up on their own. Many questions arose, which Beckley and crew attempted to sort out during the course of their dissertation, such as: When God instructed Moses and the Israelites to construct the Ark of the Covenant, could they have understood the awesome, death-dealing technology it contained? Did ancient India, like the Old Testament Jews, possess weapons of mass destruction? The new book contends that nuclear weapons or a method of kinetic bombardment were a standard component of the arsenal of people living many thousands of years ago. Read about weapons that appear on the surface to be rather commonplace, such as a simple sword or bow and arrow, but which are in fact supernaturally transformed by the gods into miraculous instruments of combat. Does archeological evidence exist today that proves nuclear war took place in ancient times, negating our belief that atomic weapons did not exist until the 20th century? Was space travel another forgotten achievement of a people long ago consumed by the passing millennia? Did they leave spaceports behind as a sign of the technological prowess that helped them reach the stars? In his introduction to the newly released book from Global Communications, “The Ark of the Covenant and Other Secret Weapons of the Ancients,” editor and author Timothy Green Beckley writes: “The Ark of the Covenant has always been an object of great wonderment. Biblical scholars have debated its uses for years, while the public fantasizes about its powers. Moviemakers have attempted to tell the story of this gleaming gold artifact in epic fictionalized form. Made to be a receptacle in which the Ten Commandments given Moses could be safeguarded, the Ark also had the power to destroy the enemies of the Israelites.” Beckley goes on to explain that he met researcher and writer David Medina in the 1970s when Beckley was visiting the UK to speak before the House of Lords UFO group. Medina presented Beckley with his privately printed manuscript on the Ark and asked Beckley’s help in giving it wider distribution. Beckley subsequently published Medina’s book and was pleased with the limited but positive reception it received. Recently, Beckley decided to publish a new edition, this time with additional chapters written by Beckley’s usual robust stable of writers. The new book focuses not just on the Ark of the Covenant but also examines other high-tech weapons created by what we have been taught are vastly more primitive societies. Thus the “Other Secret Weapons of the Ancients” part of the new book’s title. THE ARK AND ITS ENIGMATIC CAPABILITIES The book opens with the reprint of David Medina’s original text. Medina gives an account of the building of the Ark of the Covenant, based on verses from the 25th chapter of the Book of Exodus, as well as describing other elements that went along with it, such as the tent specifically constructed to house the Ark. It fell to Moses’ brother Aaron, in his role as high priest, to tend to various ceremonies and rituals related to the Ark. Aaron and his sons, who often assisted their father with his priestly duties, were required to wear special clothing while in the Ark’s presence. It has long been speculated, by Medina and numerous other writers before and since, that the special clothing was not a simple matter of priestly ceremonial garb but was instead specifically intended to protect Aaron and his sons from high levels of radiation. Because of that danger, no one else was permitted near the Ark. There are incidents recorded in the Bible in which disobedient Israelites ventured close to the Ark anyway and were subsequently struck dead by the device or died lingering deaths from radiation sickness. It is also theorized that the Ark could generate high voltage electricity and serve as a two-way radio to the heavens. How did some pieces of acacia wood, some gold overlay and a few other components readily available to the Israelites, who were essentially wandering nomads in the desert, accomplish this technological wonder? That is part of the fascination of Medina’s analysis of the Ark of the Covenant and the details are better left for those reading the Global Communications book to discover for themselves. THE UFOS OF INDIA AND THEIR DEADLY PAYLOAD But the formidable Ark was not the only high-tech weapon of the ancient world. As part of Beckley’s aforementioned stable of writers, I contributed a chapter to the new book on the weapons of ancient India. A great deal of the mythology of ancient India is taken up with a form of flying craft called a “vimana,” whose origin is unclear. Some Sanskrit writings say the vimanas were manmade but available to only a rich and elite part of the population. Other writings say the vimanas belonged to the gods and served to house ascended holy ones in luxury dwellings in the sky. But whatever that mystery may involve, the relevance to the new book lies in the fact that the vimanas were used to deliver and deploy super-weapons similar to our nuclear missiles. In the midst of a conflict between two ancient royal families, called the Kuruhshetra War, a projectile called a “Brahmastra” was launched from a vimana flying overhead. According to the scripture called the “Mahabharata,” the missile, also called the “Iron Thunderbolt,” produced “an incandescent column of smoke and fire, as brilliant as a thousand suns,” and reduced the enemy combatants to ashes. “The corpses were so burned as to be unrecognizable. The hair and nails fell out; pottery broke without cause; and the birds turned white. After a few hours, all foodstuffs were infected.” All of which is familiar to modern readers as the consequences of the radiation-saturated aftermath of a nuclear blast. As an eerie addendum, 20th century archeologists uncovered evidence that certain cities in the Indus Valley region had been completely destroyed, with people lying dead in the streets. Some kind of “sudden doom” had decimated these cities, killing the entire population and leaving no survivors to bury the dead. LETHAL FORCE WITHOUT THE MESSY CONSEQUENCES There is little disagreement among scholars of the subject that some kind of death-dealing technology was available to the ancients that is easily comparable to nuclear weaponry. But author Olav Phillips begs to differ about all that. While he refers to the same passages of the Mahabharata as most scholars do, Phillips argues that the weapons in question may not have been nuclear. The “Iron Thunderbolt” of the Kuruhshetra War may instead have been an example of “kinetic bombardment,” Phillips contends, or the use of super-dense chunks of material dropped at terminal velocity from orbit or high altitude. Kinetic bombardment would produce the same effects as a small-scale nuclear device minus the radiation. Those effects would include an enormous fireball and a tremendous shockwave that would radiate outwards from the impact site. Phillips believes this explains the decimated cities discovered by archeologists in the Indus Valley. “The superheated shockwave and concussive force wall,” Phillips writes, “would explain the collapse of structures and the scorching.” Phillips goes on to say that kinetic weapons are easy to target since their firing angle can be computed from orbit. He says modern weapons developers are working on something called “Project Thor” or the “Rods From God,” a system which hurls telephone pole-sized tungsten rods from orbit for the purpose of targeted, non-nuclear strikes. Military planners have been working on the idea since the 1950s, and there exists a 2003 US Air Force report suggesting that a tungsten cylinder six meters long impacting at Mach 10 has the equivalent kinetic energy of 11.5 tons of TNT. The idea is to deploy a lethal weapon with mass destructive force that does not have a long lasting global environmental impact. Phillips believes the combatants in the Mahabharata must have reached a similar conclusion, that a large-scale nuclear exchange would permanently destroy the very land they seek to possess, so they too opted for a devastating weapon that would not cause long-term ecological damage. SWORDS WITH A MAGICAL EDGE Publisher Timothy Green Beckley takes up the subject of magical swords, swords that were not mere steel attached to a hilt but were instead handed down by the gods to aid mortals in combat. One finds this idea in numerous Greek myths, such as when Perseus was given a sword by the gods to slay the monster Medusa, she who had hair made of snakes and scales invincible to human-made weapons. Also included is a brief retelling of the legend of King Arthur’s sword “Excalibur” and how it blinded his opponents with its brightness. Meanwhile, the scabbard that stored Excalibur had healing powers and would prevent its bearer from bleeding to death. Excalibur can only be brandished for good purposes or it is useless. It prevents those who wield it from lying and inspires courage in all who follow in its path. Well-known writers Brad Steiger and Tim R. Swartz provide chapters for “The Ark of the Covenant and Other Secret Weapons of the Ancients” as well. Steiger talks about the archeological evidence found throughout the world for prehistoric nuclear war while Swartz declares that the ancients may have achieved space travel and bolsters that contention with still more archeological evidence. “The Ark of the Covenant and Other Secret Weapons of the Ancients” is profusely illustrated, thanks mainly to the efforts of writer and graphic designer William Kern, who packs the pages with Biblical art relevant to the story of the Ark as well as paintings depicting the flying craft and weaponry of Indian mythology. The book is an excellent and original approach to the subject of Ancient Astronauts and their technological revelations to early mankind that will have you shaking your head in wonderment even as you shudder at the destructive force we are capable of with a little help from above. The Ark of the Covenant and Other Secret Weapons of the Ancients By David Medina, Timothy Green Beckley, Sean Casteel, Olav Phillips, Brad Steiger and Tim R. Swartz Signs and Symbols of the Second Coming, Expanded and Revised Edition By Sean Casteel Alien Space Gods of Ancient Greece and Rome – Revelations of the Oracle of Delphi By W. Raymond Drake, Timothy Green Beckley and Sean Casteel Legacy of the Sky People: The Extraterrestrial Origin of Adam and Eve; The Garden of Eden; Noah’s Ark and the Serpent Race By the 8th Earl of Clancarty, with Nick Redfern, Tim Swartz, Sean Casteel, William Kern and Timothy Green Beckley
Today camping is primarily a recreational activity and is an activity in which people live temporarily in the outdoors. Camping provides an opportunity to experience nature firsthand. Campers participate in fishing, hunting, swimming, plant study, bird and wildlife watching, and nature photography. Just as importantly, camping helps people escape the stress of city life. It provides physical benefits when it involves hiking to, from, and around a campsite, and many outdoor enthusiasts believe that camping instils confidence in youngsters and offers older campers opportunities to challenge themselves in unfamiliar surroundings. Just as there are several types of camping, there are also various types of campsites where campers can make their temporary home. Campsites are found in forests and deserts, on high plains and mountains, and along lakesides and ocean beaches. For more information check a local camping guide. Tents are portable shelters made of lightweight fabrics. They come in a variety of shapes and sizes. The most popular shape is the dome, or freestanding model. This model is easy to set up and does not require support from tree limbs or other objects. Many tents are designated two-person, three-person, and so on, according to how many adults can comfortably sleep inside them. Tents range from small models that sleep just one camper to larger models that can accommodate groups of 12. Before purchasing a tent, campers should decide when and where they would use it. Summer-only camping does not require a tent built to withstand intense mountain winds. Camping in areas where it often rains calls for a tent with a watertight exterior, or rain fly, that keeps those inside it dry. A tent for warm weather camping should have plenty of vents for air circulation. A cover of netting over those vents prevents insects from entering. A ground cloth—a piece of waterproof material placed between the tent floor and the ground—helps protect the tent from damage and keep moisture out. After buying a tent, practice setting it up. Practicing at home makes pitching the tent in windy or rainy conditions much easier.
In this Section 4113.0 Infectious Diseases (non-HIV) Tuesday, November 10, 2009: 10:30 AM In Bolivia it was discovered that Sodium Estibogluconate, even in programs with supervised treatment, has a high incidence of recurrences in children less than five years of age. As a result, use of Sodium Estibogluconate in this age group should be reviewed and effectiveness of other medicines should be compared. In India it was discovered that DF prevention efforts emphasizing the eradication of larval Aedes aegypti, patient education, and adherence to a standardized serological reporting system should revolve around the monsoon and post-monsoon periods. In China, a policy implication was discovered: While acute care for ailments such as cold/influenza does not show a substantial impact on family burden, more attention should be drawn to the chronic illness. For the Gambia case, it was found that distance traveled to water source, time spent collecting water per trip, the frequency of water collection within the day, availability of water for face washing, and daily frequency of face washing may all impact household Finally in the Dominican Republic, Immediate medical attention is required for suspected Dengue symptomology to avoid progression of thrombocytopenia or dehydration to shock. trachoma. Session Objectives: In Bolivia a program describes that utilization of Sodium Estibogluconate for Leishmaniasis treatment in children less than five years of age bears with it a relatively high percentage of recurrences. In India, investigators explain the need for patient education and preventive measures that are heedful of dengue fever seasonal predilection. A historical study in China identifies trends of direct economic burden of cold/influenza on individuals going to different facilities for treatment during 1989-2006.In Gambia, a demonstration of potential relationship between water supply and trachoma continues. Finally, the perception of risk and respective behavior changes toward mosquito protection utilized by citizens in the Dominican Republic was described. Elvira Beracochea, MD, MPH See individual abstracts for presenting author's disclosure statement and author's information. Organized by: International Health CE Credits: Medical (CME), Health Education (CHES), Nursing (CNE), Public Health (CPH) See more of: International Health
NEXT UP ON this. The following is an excerpt from an article written by Dr Paul Harrison from Deakin University’s Centre for Employee and Consumer Wellbeing. News that consumers in Adelaide are willing to pay $400 for a taste of Wagyu steak sounds ridiculous but, in reality, wanting something that others in your particular group can’t have is part of being human. Have you ever bought an expensive perfume, or some exclusive jewellery, a pair of designer shoes or an Elk bag? Many of these items may not be considered by you to be luxury products, but they are certainly products of desire. In reality, nobody needs a $700 pair of shoes or a retro $2000 fridge (although we all need a $6000 toaster), but these products transcend their rational utility. They have meaning beyond their function. They are objects of desire that help us to communicate to ourselves and others who we are. Desire, status and luxury are concepts that have been explored for hundreds of years. In 1899, sociologist and economist Thorstein Veblen suggested that the act of buying expensive things was a means for people to communicate their social status to others. He suggested that the purchase of luxury goods, expensive houses or attending exclusive soirees was a form of ‘wealth signalling’, or what others have called ‘peacocking’. French philosopher Pierre Bourdieu took this interpretation a step further in 1979, by suggesting that the objects and things we consume are a means of communicating to others a symbolic hierarchy to enforce our distance or distinction from other classes of society. Consumer preferences are rarely the outcome of some innate, individualistic choices of the human intellect, but a more complex, somewhat unclear desire to be part of something bigger than ourselves. Consumption does not occur in a vacuum. The items we buy, the things we do, the people we associate with and the places we visit all possess meaning for us as human beings. Even our homes are replete with meaning; many of the things that we own provide meaning for both our self-identity and our social identity. Many goods play multiple roles, functionally and psychologically. A car has both symbolic status and practical usefulness – it can demonstrate to others who we are, but it also gets us to work. Goods can lead to experiential and social outcomes, such as the ongoing joy obtained from the purchase of an espresso machine, and learning how to make the perfect coffee. 'The items we buy, the things we do, the people we associate with and the places we visit all possess meaning for us as human beings.' Dr Paul Harrison, For most of us the desire to distinguish ourselves as individuals amongst our peers is built into our DNA. And what we consume helps to make clear that distinction. The fact that we are exposed to, and seek out stories about, success and wealth, has been shown to actually influence how badly we want luxury items. A study from Arizona University published in 2016 in the Journal of Consumer Psychology found that simply reading a success story increased a desire for luxury brands amongst participants. An interesting element of many of these studies is that media portrayals of wealth on TV, on the news and even in social media have been shown to define consumers’ worlds by creating an image in their minds that biases their views of reality. In one study, the researchers found that people who watched more television assumed higher estimates of the average level of wealth and affluence in the US, and led them to believe that they were missing out on the tennis courts, private planes and swimming pools that they saw represented in the media. But even for those on low incomes, products are more significant than their simple utilitarian capacity. We buy goods to enhance our lives. We consume to make ourselves feel better. We give the brands we buy meaning by incorporating them into our day-to-day existence. But we do it predominantly to fit in with our group, whether it’s a $2000 pair of shoes or a spoiler for our hotted up car. We use our products to fit in, but also to remind ourselves that we are just a little bit better than most of our group. Viewed through a rational lens, it is pretty tricky to explain why someone would pay $3000 to watch an opera that finishes where it began (Wagner’s Ring Cycle), or $400 for a steak full of intramuscular fat (Wagyu) or $1.4 million for a red car that allegedly goes very fast (Ferrari LaFerrari). But being human is about more than being rational. Find out more about the research being conducted in Deakin University’s Centre for Employee and Consumer Wellbeing. This piece first appeared on Dr Harrison’s website Tribal Insight, where you can find essays, discussions and the latest research and theory in the world of social psychology, consumerism and marketing. Subscribe for a regular dose of technology, innovation, culture and personal development.
Wednesday, October 19, 2011: 8:30 AM 205 C (Minneapolis Convention Center) Membranes have played increasingly important roles in fuel cells. For fuel cells, membranes are involved in fuel processing and as proton-exchange and hydroxyl ion-exchange materials in membrane electrode assemblies. In fuel processing, CO2- and H2-selective membranes can be used both in membrane reactor configuration to enhance water gas shift reaction and in the membrane permeation to purify H2, as well as O2-selective membranes can be employed for O2-enriched air production to increase (1) the H2 concentration in the reformed gas from the autothermal reforming or partial oxidation/gasification of liquid fuel (e.g., gasoline, diesel and/or jet fuel), natural gas, biomass or coal and (2) the performance of fuel cell on the cathode side. Proton-exchange and hydroxyl ion-exchange membranes and membrane electrode assemblies, including cost-effective Nafion replacements particularly for 120 – 180oC and new membranes for alkaline fuel cells, are critical to the widespread use of fuel cells. Original and review papers on membranes for fuel cell applications are sought, including (1) fuel processing, (2) proton-exchange membranes, (3) hydroxyl ion-exchange membranes, and (4) membrane electrode assemblies. We will include papers on fundamental understanding through theory, modeling, and controlled experiments as well as engineering, applications and scale-up studies. Electrochemical Fundamentals (01E) See more of this Group/Topical: Separations Division
About the Book When Americans remember him at all, they no doubt think of Knut Hamsun (1859–1952) as the author of Hunger or as the Norwegian who, along with Vidkun Quisling, betrayed his country by supporting the Nazis during World War II. Yet Hamsun, winner of the Nobel Prize in 1920 for his novel The Growth of the Soil , was and remains one of the most important and influential novelists of his time. Knut Hamsun Remembers America is a collection of thirteen essays and stories based largely on Hamsun’s experiences during the four years he spent in the United States when he was a young man. Most of these pieces have never been published before in an English translation, and none are readily available. Hamsun’s feelings about America and American ways were complex. For the most part, they were more negative than positive, and they found expression in many of his writings—directly in his reminiscences and indirectly in his fiction. In On the Cultural Life of Modern America , his first major book, he portrayed the United States as a land of gross and greedy materialism, populated by illiterates who were utterly lacking in artistic originality or refinement. Although the pieces in this collection are not all anti-American, most of them emphasize the strangeness and unpleasantness, as the author saw it, of life in what he called Yankeeland. Arranged chronologically, the pieces fall into three categories: Critical Reporting, Memory and Fantasy, and Mellow Reminiscence. The Critical Reporting section includes articles that appeared in Norwegian or Danish newspapers soon after each of Hamsun’s two visits to America and that give his views on a variety of American subjects, and includes an essay devoted to Mark Twain. Memory and Fantasy comprises narratives of life in America, most of which are presented as personal experiences but which actually are blends of fact and fiction. Mellow Reminiscence includes later and fonder recollections and impressions of the United States. The pieces in this collection provide variations on a theme that runs through much of American history—European criticism of American ways. They give vivid, at times distorted, pictures of life as it was in the United States. They tell us something about the development of the worldview of a man who became a great writer, only to jeopardize his reputation by defending the Nazi oppressors of his own people. Knut Hamsun Remembers America will appeal to anyone interested in the history of American civilization or, more specifically, in the history of anti-Americanism. Richard Nelson Current is the author or editor of many books, including Lincoln’s Loyalists: Union Soldiers from the Confederacy and Those Terrible Carpetbaggers. Currently a resident of Natick, Massachusetts, he is University Distinguished Professor, Emeritus, University of North Carolina at Greensboro.
In the UK, SSADM is a most commonly used computer application for development purpose. Moreover, this application is mostly utilized for the government computing projects in UK. In Europe, it is widely being adopted by most public sectors than government organizations. The SSADM is in the public sector and is previously specified in British Standards as BS7738. The name “Structured Systems Analysis and Design Method” is a system advance to the analysis and design of both management and information systems. SSADM was created for the CCTA a UK government of %uFB01ce considered the use of the growing technology in government from 1980 onwards. These key words are at the moment Registered Trade Marks of the Of%uFB01ce of Government Commerce (OGC), which is in the United Kingdom Treasury. SSADM is defined as a waterfall technique that an Information System design can be derived. Again, SSADM can be perceived to symbolize a pinnacle of the precise document-led approach to system design. It is differentiated with contemporary Rapid Application Development methods. The SSADM is chasing the waterfall life cycle model that is staring in order to study physical design stage during development. One of the core features of the SSADM is that it includes intense involvement in the requirements analysis stage. The clients are made to sign off from every stage that is completed ensuring the requirements are fulfilled. Moreover, the users are offered clear and easy to understand data that include a number of diagrammatic representations regarding the system. The SSADM will divide the development projects into several stages, modules, steps and tasks. Furthermore, the initial and primary model that is developed and formulated in SSADM is the data model. This method is considered as a part of requirement gathering and consists of well-designed stages, steps and products. SSADM Benefits and Drawbacks The benefit of SSADM is that it utilizes three techniques in order to determine the information system viability. One of the major benefits of SSADM is the incorporation of three techniques that will determine the viability of information systems. Likewise, the entity identification and their relationship in the system are verified by logical data modeling. Furthermore, data flow modeling technique demonstrates data modification from one state to another form, occupying space for data and entities that transmit it in the systems along with the routes that are responsible for data flows. In addition, event-modeling credentials demonstrate the impact of these entities within the business and their information systems. Therefore, these three procedures and perspectives are offered the more complete and precise model. The probability of minimizing information readiness at the initial stages of the project is enhanced by examining and analyzing a thorough review of the system. Likewise, the occurrence in the system occurs due to poor design. Moreover, SSADM is regularly used in the United Kingdom; team members associated with the project are familiar with the processes and procedures. SSADM methodology is a structured approach that develops and deploys controls on all procedures pertaining to data creation. Likewise, this is the core objective of SSADM as it gives slight room for mistakes and it is also the main reason of its adoption and popularity within the UK. However, the error free structure is linked to some constraints. One can predict that the necessities of the system may change at each stage during the software development process. As SSADM is constructed on the basis of data analysis if any changes are identified after the analysis stage, system suggested by the data can be defective. Moreover, for supporting business, SSADM is closely aligned with critical business functions of an organization. Some of the attributes for SSADM supporting business functions includes enhanced quality by reviewing every stage of the software development process and meeting the customer requirements precisely by reviewing requirement analysis stage. The time and volume must be adequate at the disposal for the completion of every stage of the development process. Moreover, the radically changing situation in business happens because SSADM do not the changes available in the specification after the completion of the review stage. For considering long term benefits of SSADM, overall quality of information services within the organization is enhanced. Likewise, SSADM use is also adopted by government organizations and initially it was developed to focus on three kinds of organizations and government projects as these projects have adequate time and resources to align with the nature of SSADM methodology. The greatest drawback related to the SSADM system is that it use more time than other system. It is difficult for a business organization to generate the information system by a due date because SSADM takes too much time to analyze the projects. There is a monumental suspension among the initiation of the project and the deployment of the system. If the staff members of any organization are not fully qualified in the SSADM techniques, the business will need to spend more period and currency on training their employees. A framework is provided in order to describe projects that suited for managing the projects related to SSADM. In fact, SSADM divides an application development projects into modules, stages, steps and tasks. SSADM’s objectives are listed below: Enhances project management and control. Makes good and effective use of experienced and inexperienced development employees. Ensures better quality systems. Projects are flexible related to the loss of employees. Projects that are supported by computer-based tools for instance computer-aided software engineering systems are enabled. For better communications among participants of the project, a framework is created that covers all elements of the life cycle of a system. Furthermore, it starts from the feasibility study stage up to the production of a physical design. A number of techniques, procedures, and conventions are set out by SSADM for each and every stage in order to record and communicate the information pertaining to in textual and diagrammatic forms. In addition, SSADM is considered the most comprehensive model and its characteristics regarding the projects are such that it only utilizes those elements of SSADM appropriate to the project. A number of CASE tool providers maintain SSADM. SSADM is a waterfall method whereby Information System design can be derived. SSADM can be perceived symbolize a pinnacle of the precise document-led approach to system design. This method is distinguished with contemporary Rapid Application Development methods such as DSDM. SSADM incorporates five phases as they can also be precisely broken down further into sub-phases. They include the following: Feasibility: To decide whether it is cost effective to go further on with the system and whether it is actually promising. These are some of the sub-phases under the feasibility study: Prepare for the feasibility study Define the problem Create feasibility report Identifying of the requirements and needs related to the system and modeling these requests in terms of the procedures carried out. The sub-phases under the requirement analysis: Investigation of Current Environment Establish analysis framework Investigate and define requirements Investigate current processing Investigate current data Derive logical view of current services Assemble investigates results Business system ways Define and identify business system options Choose business system ways or options Identify Requirement Specification The functional and non-functional necessities are determined in detail. The sub-phases under the requirement specification: Definition of Requirements Define required system processing Develop required data model Derive system functions Enhance required data model Develop specification prototypes Develop processing specification Confirm system objectives Assemble requirements specification Logical System Design Specification Technical systems options are produced and the logical design of the system is created. This consist the design of update and enquiry processing. The sub-phases under logical system design are: Technical system options Define technical system options Select technical system options Define physical design module Define user dialogues Define update processes Define enquiry process Assemble logical design The logical system measurement and technical system specification is utilized to design a physical database and set of program specifications. The sub-phases under physical design are: Prepare for physical design Create physical data design Optimize physical data design Complete function specification Consolidate process data interface Create function component implementation map SSADM provides numerous benefits as well as drawbacks in terms of delivering projects on time. In order to develop a system for a medium-sized business organization, a comparatively small information system must be created. There are better solutions for the development of information system. On the contrary, there are limited resources available in a medium-sized business organization therefore, it should be considered utilizing an off-the-shelf product that is low cost and time consuming. Moreover, stages, objectives, steps, techniques, benefits and drawbacks are also discussed in detail. Essay Writing Service Features Our ExperienceNo matter how complex your assignment is, we can find the right professional for your specific task. My Essay Gram is an essay writing company that hires only the smartest minds to help you with your projects. Our expertise allows us to provide students with high-quality academic writing, editing & proofreading services. Free revision policy$10 Free bibliography & reference$8 Free title page$8 How Our Essay Writing Service Works First, you will need to complete an order form. It's not difficult but, in case there is anything you find not to be clear, you may always call us so that we can guide you through it. On the order form, you will need to include some basic information concerning your order: subject, topic, number of pages, etc. We also encourage our clients to upload any relevant information or sources that will help.Complete the order form Once we have all the information and instructions that we need, we select the most suitable writer for your assignment. While everything seems to be clear, the writer, who has complete knowledge of the subject, may need clarification from you. It is at that point that you would receive a call or email from us.Writer’s assignment As soon as the writer has finished, it will be delivered both to the website and to your email address so that you will not miss it. If your deadline is close at hand, we will place a call to you to make sure that you receive the paper on time.Completing the order and download
1A kind of gelatin obtained from fish, especially sturgeon, and used in making jellies, glue, etc. and for fining real ale. More example sentences - The animal kingdom was represented by gelatin in the form of meat stock; isinglass; and hartshorn. - Antonin poured the thickening isinglass alternately into the fruit juice and the almond milk. - Sometimes the wood surface was prepared with a coating of gesso or isinglass diluted in water with a little white pigment added. mid 16th century: alteration (by association with glass) of obsolete Dutch huysenblas 'sturgeon's bladder', from huysen 'sturgeon' + blas 'bladder'. Definition of isinglass in: - The US English dictionary
Description: By far, the most simplistic way to print in the Linux operating system is to send the file to be printed directly to the printing device. One way to do this is to use the cat command. As the root user, one could do something like # cat thesis.txt > /dev/lp In this case, /dev/lp is a symbolic link to the actual printing device---be it a dot-matrix, laser printer, typesetter, or plotter. (See ln(1) for more information on symbolic links.) For the purpose of security, only the root user and users in the same group as the print daemon are able to write directly to the printer. This is why commands such as lpr, lprm, and lpq have to be used to access the printer. Because of this, users have to use lpr to print a file. The lpr command takes care of all the initial work needed to print the file, and then it hands control over to another program, lpd, the line printing daemon. The line printing daemon then tells the printer how to print the file. When lpr is executed, it first copies the specified file to a certain directory (the spool directory) where the file remains until lpd prints it. Once lpd is told that there is a file to print, it will spawn a copy of itself (what we programmers call forking). This copy will print our file while the original copy waits for more requests. This allows for multiple jobs to be queued at once. The syntax of lpr(1) is a very familiar one, $ lpr [ options ] [ filename ... ] If filename is not specified, lpr expects input to come from standard input (usually the keyboard, or another program's output). This enables the user to redirect a command's output to the print spooler. As such, $ cat thesis.txt | lpr $ pr -l60 thesis.txt | lpr The lpr command accepts several command-line arguments that allow a user to control how it works. Some of the most widely used arguments are: -Pprinter specifies the printer to use, -h suppresses printing of the burst page, -s creates a symbolic link instead of copying the file to the spool directory (useful for large files), and -#num specifies the number of copies to print. An example interaction with lpr might be something like $ lpr -#2 -sP dj thesis.txt This command will create a symbolic link to the file thesis.txt in the spool directory for the printer named dj, where it would be processed by lpd. It would then print a second copy of thesis.txt. For a listing of all the options that lpr will recognize, see lpr(1). Related: banner, cancel, lpc, lprint, lpd(8), lprintq/lpq(1), lprm, pr(1), printcap(5), symlink
As more and more research comes out on blended learning, clearly student interaction is a topic that cannot be ignored. Without sufficient quality and quantity of student interaction, any form of online learning, especially blended learning models, have little chance of success. Dziuban, Hartman, and Mehaffy (2014) observe that: Blended learning, in all its various representations, has as its fundamental premise a simple idea: link the best technological solutions for teaching and learning with the best human resources….encourag[ing] the development of highly interactive and collaborative activities that can be accomplished only by a faculty member in a mediated setting. (p.322) In creating a blended course model, here are recommendations I have to maximize student interaction. In the online component of the course, have these activities planned: a. Syllabus review with a discussion board activity where students weigh in on the syllabus and their own b. Student profile creation which facilitates student-to-student interaction c. Video viewings d. Quiz or application of learning (This could be the evaluation of a learning object needed to complete the final project of the course) e. Reflection writing These activities in the online component of a course demonstrate the following: “In the best of circumstances technology allows professors to offload responsibilities that can be taken up by technology.” Dzuiban, Hartman, and Mehaffy( 2014). In the face-to-face component of the class: a. Have a synchronous weekly chat that centers around the main topic of the week and allows time for questions b. Have a final face-to-face meeting where students (or groups) deliver their final presentations for the course with an opportunity for peer review The face-to-face components of a blended course tap into interaction as a human need which is closely tied to intrinsic motivation. Synchronous activities and meetings can provide a sense of community and the necessary connections that hold an online (or blended course together). In this community setting, it is important to consider who the students will be expressing themselves to in their presentations. Students should be prepared to make their case, express their opinions and answer questions from peers and instructors. Not only are these skills valuable in an academic setting where students are working toward a degree, but they can also be considered part of what it means to be career-ready. Whether activities are online or face-to-face, it is very important to provide clear instructions, expectations and exemplars of good work. Creating rubrics for each different kind of activity gives students a roadmap toward defining their learning and achievement goals. Dzuiban, C.D., Harman, J.L., and Mehaffy, G.L. (2014). Blending it all together, In A. Picciano, C. Dzuiban, and C. Graham (Eds.), Blended learning: Research Perspectives volume 2. NY: Routledge. In taking ELI’s BlendKit15 course on blended learning, I am exposed many new readings and ideas about what blended learning is and what it is not. As online learning research accumulates, clearly blended learning models are coming out ahead as the most effective form of online learning with exceptional learning results for students. As cited in the U.S. Department of Education’s (2010) “Evaluation of Evidence-Based Practice in Online Learning: A Meta-Analysis and Review of Online Learning Studies”, “Students in online conditions performed modestly better, on average, than those learning the same material through traditional face-to-face instruciton (p.xiv) and noteably, “Instruction combining online and face-to-face elements had a larger advantage relative to purely face-to-face instruction that did purely onlien instruction.” (p.xv). Why is this? There are several reasons to consider. By combining online components that the student can engage with and explore on their own terms with a face-to-face component that allows for building knowledge through connection, collaboration and discourse, you have a well rounded experience that benefits the learner and provides a refreshing role for the instructor as a guide or facilitator. This model is also highly beneficial to several learning styles and allows both the introverted and extroverted student areanas in which they can shine. I am a huge fan of George Siemans and his learning theory of connectivism. Blended learning moves us …”towards a networked model requires that we place less emphasis on our tasks of presenting information, and more emphasis on building the learner’s ability to navigate the information.” It is in this navigation, that the student sharpens critical thinking skills and develops into an independent life-long learner. I especially like the way that George Siemans describes the links and connections formed by the learners themselves as, “…the creation of the knowledge ecology.” In order to achieve the best balance of both worlds and create an enriched learning experience for the student, these 5 ideas are useful to remember: - Context is always at the core of the planning and design process. Who are the learners? What do they need to learn? What kinds of learning experiences will optimize that effort? - Keep learning and not technology at the center of the design process. Use technology to leverage learning. - Be aware that creating an online or blended learning class will take more time and thought to prepare it properly. - Be prepared to adapt any learning model you use as you get into the design process - “Creating a blended learning strategy is an evolutionary process.” (Singh and Reed, 2001). I’m looking forward to exploring this topic and online course design style more in depth. What appeals to me is the interplay between online and f2f components and how to optimize that volly to find just the right mix to create a vibrant learning community that ignites with the love of self-directed learning. Siemens, G. (2002, September 30, 2012). Instructional Design in Elearning. Retrieved from http://www.elearnspace.org/Article/InstructionalDesign.htm Singh, H. & reed, C. (2001). A white paper: achieving success with blended learning. Centra Software. U.S. Department of Education. (2010). Evaluation of Evidence-Based Practices in Online Learning: A Meta-Analysis and Review of Online Learning Studies, Washington, D.C. Retrieved from http://www2.ed.gov/rschstat/eval/tech/evidence-based-practices/finalreport.pdf If you’ve been following the stream of articles on digital education, no doubt you’ve run into the frenzy around MOOCs. MOOCS represent a new form of online education deliverable to students worldwide for a low- to no-cost and can provide, in some cases, college credit. Students can access educational content delivered by some of the most prestigious universities in the world on their time and from multiple devices. So far, MOOCs have already opened accessibility to higher education for millions of students; according to Coursera over half of these students are over age 26.  As with other disruptions, controversy swells after initial launches, and MOOCs are certainly no exception. Recently, a group of philosophy professors at San Jose State Universitywrote an open letter to Michael Sandel, a government professor at Harvard University, for his offering of a MOOC through the provider edX that had its beginnings at Harvard. The issue? Concerns the collaboration between schools via MOOCs could represent the beginning of a trend to “replace professors, dismantle departments, and provide a diminished education for students in public universities.” In early May, several dozen professors in Harvard’s Faculty of Arts and Sciences signed a letter to their dean asking for formal oversight of the MOOC offerings through edX, a MOOC provider co-founded by the University. The Harvard professors alluded to “many critical questions,” as yet unanswered, about “the impact online courses will have on the higher-education system as a whole.” Some outsiders comment that Harvard (and other large tier-one universities) may become the Wal-Mart of education, impacting branding, and moving to a corporate model, which could exclude the original values and mission statement of university education. Critics argue that professors who object to the emergence of MOOCs may be more concerned their scholarly works may come under much more scrutiny when their classes open to the world. Financially and politically, the MOOC movement recasts itself almost daily as the big players jostle for position to become a top-tier provider of online courses that can be offered either as the main course or more of an appetizer in a flipped classroom setting. Some higher education forecasters believe this is the future of public education. The Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, which is supporting the Massachusetts Bay Community College experiment where MOOC delivery is happening in addition to face-to-face classroom instruction, has devoted millions to seeing if MOOCs produced by elite universities could help boost student success at financially-strapped state colleges. The MOOC style of delivery is no doubt highly popular among students and lifelong learners. More than 900,000 people are now registered users of edX, and President Anant Agarwal said it plans to generate revenue — through selling validated certificates to those who complete courses and charging licensing fees to colleges that teach courses based on its videos — are on track. Coursera, another highly popular MOOC provider, adapted its original vision to a new platform, offering credit-bearing courses for students enrolled in multiple campuses within a public university system beginning in May 2013. The company’s partners in this are the State University of New York System, the Tennessee Board of Regents and the University of Tennessee System, the University of Colorado System, the University of Houston System, the University of Kentucky, the University of Nebraska System, the University of New Mexico System, the University System of Georgia and West Virginia University. Critics claim the real impact of MOOCs may not be in educational pedagogy, but in the altering of the financial and political systems tied to higher education. Faculty are concerned about job security, academic freedom and the general dismantling of a very entrenched traditional version of higher education. Other newly-arising and hotly contested issues include: whether a professor who creates content delivered on a MOOC platform is responsible for the full impact of disruption created at another university or community college; whether students are actually learning anything; and how credit administered for these courses would compare with credit delivered for face-to-face classroom instruction. Chandrakant Panse of Massachusetts Bay Community College said, “The MIT certificate has a lot more value in the marketplace than three course credits at MassBay — absolutely.” In the context of a student’s job search, says the professor, an edX certificate “is going to matter tremendously more than saying. ‘I have three credits at MassBay for doing a programming course.’” Because of the paucity of secure and psychometrically valid learning outcome assessments, it is difficult to determine the value of MOOCs. Some see it as a new form of entertainment, with some students around the world competing to obtain the highest numbers of letters of completion. These so-called hardcore students have, in some cases, taken more than 30 courses and describe themselves as “Coursera addicts.” They argue this is a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to learn from some of the most prestigious universities in the world … for free. And they worry this free admission to high-quality education may not last for long. New research published by the Journal of Research and Practice in Assessment is among the first peer-reviewed studies based on MOOC data. The study discovered online learners performed better when they worked with the course material offline, either with a peer or with someone trained in the area of study. The course reviewed was “Circuits and Electronics” from MIT. In this article, we must also visit the issue of cheating online, as it is easy to do so in a MOOC. “Understanding Cheating in Online Courses,” an eight-week course, explores the vocabulary, psychology and mechanics of what Bernard Bull, assistant vice-president of academics at Concordia University Wisconsin, calls “successful cheating” in online learning. Not all academics are critical of MOOCs. In fact, some of them welcome the movement as a way to augment their already-established courses. Khosrow Ghadiri, a lecturer at San Jose State University, said the edX course works perfectly as an additional classroom resource. “It’s a talking textbook that you can pick up any chapter of it, augment it the way you want it, add lecture to it, and use it to teach your students effectively,” he told The Chronicle of Higher Education.  Last fall, Ghadiri began using recorded lectures by edX’s Agarwal in his introductory course in electrical engineering. Students passed at a much higher rate than usual — 91 percent compared with 59 percent and 55 percent in two other, more traditional sections of the same course. “We need a talented faculty to engage with the students,” said Ghadiri. “The only thing that I see in this pilot experiment is that the faculty get more time to spend with the students one-on-one.” Clearly, the emergence of a trend such as the MOOC is indicative of unmet educational needs worldwide. Societal changes are forcing time-tested traditions to yield to the demand for more relevant models. The disruption presently created by the MOOC movement can be a time for fresh debate and an emergence of completely new models that serve both instructor and student more effectively in the 21st century. As with many things in our societies, embracing change promotes growth, both personally and professionally. – – – – Article originally posted on The EvoLLLution at http://www.evolllution.com/community_programs/audio-serving-local-community-critical-small-institution-success/  Allison Morris, “The Minds Behind The MOOCs,” Online Courses, June 4, 2013. Accessed at http://www.onlinecollegecourses.com/minds-behind-moocs  “San Jose State Department of Philosophy – Open Letter to Professor Michael Sandel From the Philosophy Departemnt at San Jose State U,” RapGenius, April 29, 2013. Accessed at http://news.rapgenius.com/San-jose-state-department-of-philosophy-open-letter-to-professor-michael-sandel-from-the-philosophy-department-at-san-jose-state-u-lyrics#note-1833866  “Letter from 58 Professors to Smith Addressing edX,” The Harvard Crimson, May 23, 2013. Accessed at http://www.thecrimson.com/flash-graphic/2013/5/23/edx-faculty-letter-smith/  Steve Kolowich, “Outsourced Lectures Raise Concerns About Academic Freedom,” The Chronicle of Higher Education, May 28, 2013. Accessed athttp://chronicle.com/article/Outsourced-Lectures-Raise/139471/ At the Center for Applied Second Language Studies at the University of Oregon in Eugene, Oregon a grand experiment is taking place. Due to the impact of recent budget cuts in education both at the K-12 level and in higher education, foreign language courses are being dropped and students are scrambling to find new and different ways to access these necessary courses. The courses are not only necessary for college admission, but to adequately function in the globalized job market of the future. Some high school students in our state are going to community colleges for classes, while others are taking online courses developed by educational corporations. We have assembled a team of Chinese specialists in curriculum and pedagogical design and along with myself working in instructional design and technology, we are preparing online modules in Mandarin for both high school students and the national Flagship program which supplies classes that deliver both content and high level Chinese language instruction to college students. Our goal is to create a completely new format that offers the best of language instruction and enriched technological media for high student engagement. Being in a pioneering field is both exciting and daunting at times. One of the greatest challenges we have faced is exactly how to blend the philosophy of sound evidence based language instruction with best practices in Instructional Design. There is an art and science to both good language instruction and engaging instructional design and finding the exact points where these two disciplines intersect has been fascinating. Communication is key. One would think that it would be easy to communicate the needs for an online module to a content development team. But without having taken an online course, the members of the content development team rely heavily on my expertise and understanding of how the course will unfold in an asynchronous online setting. By contrast, not speaking a word of Mandarin, I rely heavily on the team’s expertise in developing both content and curriculum that will meet national and international standards of language instruction. Working with native speakers from China and Taiwan, I have discovered their learning styles and their great attention to detail. While it has been mentioned in the literature that Asian cultures by nature may not necessarily be innovative, I would disagree. What I have noticed is that their ability to revise, refine and innovate is keen on models that are already created. The areas where I see our team being stretched is in using new models of teaching, such as project based learning and folding in Web 2.0 tools, the quantity of which grows by the day. It is immensely rewarding to work side by side with colleagues from China and Taiwan as we move forward with our online initiatives. The various perspectives, skill sets, talents and viewpoints help to create an enriched learning experience that we are eager to sample with student groups soon. Image courtesy of: Extracted: 3/30/12 at 11:34 AM (PST). Assessing a Collaboration Project For this discussion post, you are in the role of an online instructor who has assigned a website to be built by groups comprised of four students each in your course in Multimedia Web Design. This is a capstone project for the course and you have had the opportunity to observe each student’s level of cognitive attitude, technical ability and participation in the course through other collaborative projects, like the Discussion Board. You are entering the last two weeks of the course, and by now, peer to peer relationships have been established and your role now is to function as a learning guide. Reflect on your role as a learning guide and how best to approach your students, now that they have become more independent. In your previous online courses, reflect upon an instructor who has handled this transitional role well and draw from it as you develop this week’s post. Reflect on your role as a student and how it has been for you working in groups for academic projects in the past. What have you learned that you can take forward with this assignment? For this week’s post: Please describe how you would: - Form the groups for the Captstone Project - Communicate Best Practices for helping the group to manage the project - Establish roles for the project - Assess both individual and group performance - Design rubrics for this assessment Here is the rubric that your post will be evaluated by the following rubric. Click on this link, scroll to the very bottom of the page and locate the rubric for Discussion Posts. Post by Wednesday: Please post your response to the class Discussion Board by Wednesday of this week. Friday: Review the Discussion Board posts and enter in to any discussion to add and expand the discussion. Sunday: Again, review all the responses to your initial post and follow up with any conversations that you have been participating in to date. (Cartoon thought bubble reads: ” http://www.canyoudomyhomeworkforme.com”;) With the explosion of online learning in both K-12 and higher education, there too, has been an explosion in plagiarism and cheating. While the motivation for cheating has not changed over the years, the realization that one has cheated, especially in the digital world, has, as it is much more visible in a cyber based classroom. Most students do not realize that by cutting and pasting text from a website into their research paper without citation represents plagiarism and cheating. In an interesting survey of approximately 50,000 students from more than 60 universities students believe: ‘cut & paste’ plagiarism – using a sentence or two (or more) from different sources on the Internet and weaving this information together into a paper without appropriate citation – is not a serious issue. While 10 percent of students admitted to engaging in such behavior in 1999, almost 40 percent admit to doing so in the Assessment Project surveys [2002-5]. A majority of students (77%) believe such cheating is not a very serious issue (CAI research, 2005) as cited in Jocoy & DiBiase (2006). Why has cheating become ‘not a very serious issue’? It appears both the expectations and enforcements of facilitators/educators has fallen off. According to Jocoy & DiBiase (2006), it is much harder to detect manually as well. With budget cuts, shorter teacher days, higher enrollments, it seems plausible that a lot of cheating is going unnoticed. Thankfully, plagiarism software is now available to online instructors that can check for plagiarism. Turnitin is a good case in point. Other methods include Google which allows instructors to track down copied phrases and online services such as EVE actually compares student papers to Web documents and/or to essay databases to find and report instances of matching text. In their study, Jocoy & DiBiase(2006) did notice a difference in detecting instances of cheating by using digital resources. Our authors, Palloff & Pratt (2011), discuss the importance of creating an assessment that is highly individualized. For instance, rather than creating a multiple choice test, design the assessment so that the student has to write a personal reflection paper that demonstrates how they would apply the knowledge gained in the course to their everyday lives. There is an argument for preparing students for the work world in such a way that collaborative research, and fact finding becomes a norm. Right now in my son’s 7th grade class, the math teams occasionally take a group exam and each member of the team can contribute their knowledge to the exam. As an instructor, there are several remedies than can be implemented to cut down on both plagiarism and cheating. First of all, the instructor holds the expectation that students will not cheat and that there will be enforcements and consequences if students are caught. The announcement of assignments being processed by Turnitin should be enough of disincentive for a student to go down that road. More use of librarians can also be helpful, as many current students do not really understand the nature of plagiarism. As an online instructor, examinations can be made of documents side-by-side, discussion posts can be compared to one another, unusual wording or lengthy wording that differs from the student’s ‘signature style’, and even a mix of fonts and type style in one paper are all ways that an instructor can possibly suspect cheating. If it is suspected, it is best that the instructor addresses the issue with the student offline and explains the situation and asks for an explanation. The online instructor has the responsibility to set the tone of this issue early on in Week Zero in the course policies of what the expectations and consequences are for cheating. The student who cheats only cheats him or herself on really knowing the material that will benefit their life somehow in the future. That is a real loss for that individual and needs to be prevented. As I look to the future of online learning, I really like the idea of designing assessments that are as individualized as a student’s fingerprint. Design the assessment so that the student is forced to engage higher level thinking skills and demonstrate metacognition. Reflecting on one’s experiences in life or applying the content information to one’s life are excellent ways to measure learning and guarantee that the student has delivered original thinking and truly contributed something unique to the learning community of the course. Cartoon courtesy of www. CartoonStock.com. Extracted from: Google Images. 04/07/11 Jocoy, C., & DiBiase, D. (2006). Plagiarism by adult learners online: A case study in detection and remediation. International Review of Research in Open & Distance Learning, 7(1), 1–15. Palloff, R. & Pratt, K. (2011) Plagiarism and Cheating. Laureate Education Inc., Video Production.
In the struggle for energy conservation, one region outpaces the others by a long shot: the Pacific Northwest and the state of California. Since the 1970s, said David Goldstein, senior scientist at the Natural Resources Defense Council, with offices in California, Washington, D.C., and New York, West Coast energy-conservation groups have initiated a variety of low-cost community programs designed to lower energy consumption in the fight to avoid an increase in the number of power plants. So far, coalitions have eliminated the need for 16 power plants in Washington, Oregon, Wyoming and Idaho, said Michael Totten, executive director of the Washington, D.C.-based Energy Conservation Coalition. That region has saved more than $100 million a year with energy efficient programs. Energy experts say that these programs cost one-tenth the cost of building a power plant. Many are incentive programs. The state of Oregon, for example, pays a certain amount for the weatherization of homes, and Pacific Power & Light Co. boasts the highest payback rate for such programs in the country--$1.15 per kilowatt hour, as opposed to an average of 7 cents. Another successful incentive program in Oregon called for newly constructed buildings to ``beat`` existing building codes by being more energy-efficient than the codes required. California leads the way in appliance efficiency, Goldstein said. The state has toughened its standards and is in its ``second generation`` of plans to improve efficiency by granting rebates to customers who purchase energy-efficient appliances. The state of California has a tiered-rate utility payment structure, which sells initial units of electricity at bargain prices, then increases the rate with additional consumption. This legislative measure helps low-income families, who use less electricity out of necessity, Goldstein said. Northwest states have set up programs to retrofit insulation into homes, a move subsidized by utilities for low-income households. A trial conservation program in the last few years studied how quickly the Northwest region could reduce energy consumption. In two years, 90 percent of the households had insulation and other weatherization methods installed. This made for 50 percent or more energy savings, Goldstein said. ``Reagan and the utilities say we need to build several hundred power plants in the next 20 years,`` Goldstein said. ``That would cost several trillion dollars.`` The alternative, he said, is to implement a multitude of low-cost community energy-conservation programs at a much lower price. Though these individual programs seem to save a few cents here, a few cents there, in the long run they add up, he said.
No one enjoys paying taxes. Remember receiving your first paycheck and discovering how much of your hard-earned money you would be sharing with the government? Most of us recognize that some taxes are necessary. We are happy to have roads, schools, courts, and a military, but don’t feel great about having to pay the taxes that fund them. Although economics recognizes the need for taxes to fund the government, it is pretty clear-eyed about the downside of taxes: - Corporate taxes are problematic because they involve taxing the same earnings twice. Once a corporation has paid taxes on its income, it distributes some of that income to shareholders as dividends–which are then taxed a second time. It would make more economic sense to forget about corporations and just tax shareholders. - Income taxes, particularly in the United States, have so many loopholes that they distort economic incentives. For example, people who would be better off renting a house may decide to buy because buying is cheaper once they factor in that they can deduct mortgage interest payments from their income tax. Nonetheless, taxes are sometimes good for us, despite the economic drawbacks. One example is the tax on cigarettes. Smoking is costly for society. According to the US Centers for Disease Control, smoking-related illness costs the United States more than $300 billion per year, approximately the same amount as Americans spend on all prescription drugs combined. The health costs and lost productivity due to cigarettes are estimated to be $19.16 per pack. If a higher tax on cigarettes reduces smoking, this would be a good outcome. Historically, states were willing to impose “sin taxes,” that is, taxes on items considered to be socially undesirable or harmful like alcohol and tobacco, because demand for these products was generally robust—hence the taxes provided a dependable revenue stream. More recently, and particularly in the case of cigarettes, a different motivation has come to the fore. If the tax is high enough, it may discourage consumption, which would be a good thing. So, the question is: do higher taxes on cigarettes reduce sales? Figure 1 plots the adult smoking rate on the horizontal axis and the level of state cigarette taxes on the vertical axis. The tax data in figure 1 do not include a federal tax of $1.01 per pack of cigarettes, or taxes by cities and counties, such as Chicago ($1.18), Cook County ($3.00), New York City ($1.50), Philadelphia ($2.00), and Juneau, AK ($3.00). Note the high tax rate in the northeast and far west, and the relatively low tax rate in the major tobacco-producing states (NC, KY, VA, SC, TN, and GA, highlighted in red). The trend line in Figure 1, which illustrates the relationship between cigarette taxes and smoking, suggests that higher taxes are, in fact, associated with less smoking. However, the data also suggest that high taxes have their limits. New York, for example, has the highest state tax on cigarettes ($4.35 per pack), but its adult smoking rate is still higher than the slightly lower-tax states such of Massachusetts ($3.51), Connecticut ($3.90), New Jersey ($2.70), and California ($2.87). The data also clearly indicates that the state tax rate is not the sole determinant of smoking. For example, Utah which has a relatively low tax rate also has a lower smoking rate, presumably due in part to Mormonism’s prohibition on smoking. The adult smoking rate may not be the best indicator of the success of cigarette tax policy. Adult smokers are usually long-term smokers who are both more likely to be addicted and have more money, and so may be less discouraged by high cigarette taxes. Young smokers, however, are less likely to be addicted and have the financial means to support a smoking habit, so we would expect their demand for cigarettes to be more sensitive to taxes. Figure 2 plots the youth smoking rate on the horizontal axis and the level of cigarette state taxes on the vertical axis. Figure 2 bears out this assertion. The flatter trend line illustrates that higher state taxes lead to a greater decline in smoking among youth than among adults, and suggests that a number of states could lower their youth smoking rate even further by raising the excise tax. Of course, state policy on cigarette taxes can be subverted by smuggling if the divergence between state taxes are substantial. Buying just one package of cigarettes in Virginia, where the tax is $0.30 per pack, and selling it in New York City, where the city and state tax combined are $6.01, would lead to a profit of $5.71. Since a pack of cigarettes is quite small and weighs only a few ounces, large scale smuggling presents a significant profit opportunity. One way of increasing cigarette taxes without encouraging additional smuggling would be to increase the $1.01 per pack federal tax on cigarettes. Cigarette tax policy is far more complicated than the simple analysis presented here. There are many additional factors that may affect youth and adult smoking patterns, including race, gender, ethnicity, advertising, and legal age of smoking. And, since smoking is more common among the less affluent, cigarette taxes are likely to be regressive. Despite these caveats, the evidence is clear that taxing cigarettes can save lives. Featured image credit: cigarette smoking smoke ash by markusspiske. Public domain via Pixabay.
The Launch of the World Alliance for Patient Safety "Please do me no harm" The World Health Organization (WHO) and its partners announced a series of key actions to cut the number of illnesses, injuries and deaths suffered by patients during health care, with the launch of the World Alliance for Patient Safety. Ministers of health and senior officials, academics, patients' groups and WHO representatives came together from all corners of the globe to advance the patient safety goal of "First do no harm" and reduce the adverse health and social consequences of unsafe health care. The launch meeting, which took place at the Pan American Health Organization in Washington , DC, was organized around a series of keynote speeches. The meeting, encouraged participants to strengthen common action for integration of patient safety issues in national health policy and practice that would lead to much greater long-term safety in health care. Progress made at regional levels was described by WHO Regional Directors. The meeting heard that the World Alliance for Patient Safety aims to deliver six major action areas during 2005-2006: - Global Patient Safety Challenge focusing on health care associated infection; - Patients for Patient Safety involving patient oranizations and individuals in Alliance work; - International Classification for Patient Safety ensuring consistency in the concepts, principles, norms and terminology used in Patient Safety work; - Research for Patient Safety developing a rapid assessment tool for use in developing countries and undertaking prevalence studies of adverse effects; - Solutions for Patient Safety promoting existing interventions in patient safety and coordinating international efforts to develop solutions. - Reporting and learning generating best practice guidelines. Forward programme 2005 World Alliance for Patient Safety
Water Quality Studies in Malacca River Basin Using Geographic Information Systems (GIS) Lion Bayuhan, Marryanna Lion (2003) Water Quality Studies in Malacca River Basin Using Geographic Information Systems (GIS). Masters thesis, Universiti Putra Malaysia. Malacca Straits is recognized worldwide due to its importance as the busiest waterway in the world. The environmental profile of the Malacca Straits points to certain stresses in the ecosystem due to pollution load. Pollutants from land-based sources are probably the most pressing environmental problem. Wastes from agricultural, industrial, and domestic source discharge directly into the Straits or indirectly via rivers, which flow into the Straits. As far as land based pollution is concerned, study on river basin is important. The Malacca River basin is of the rivers flowing into the Straits of Malacca. Geographic information System (GIS) was used to map the water pollution scenario due to its ability to analyze spatial and temporal data. Beside that, correlation coefficient method was used to determine the relationship and variation between rainfall and water quality parameters. Six parameters selected for this study. namely. Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD), Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD), Ammoniacal Nitrogen. pH, Suspended Solid (SS), and Dissolved Oxygen (DO). The output of this study consists of water quality database. maps, and graphs on the water quality variations. The important of this study is the application of GIS technology in monitoring water quality. Technology plays an important role for effective environmental management. Repository Staff Only: Edit item detail
- Special Sections - Public Notices ound as the IQ sinks” is an amazing example of chutzpah. In a column meant for readers in Los Alamos, certainly a mathematically aware county, he tells us that today’s kids’ aptitudes are being degraded by not doing enough long division exercises. He harkens back to a better time when students learned how better how to do “real” calculations. Maybe some students need to do more rote exercises and can skip Euclid’s proof that the square root of two is irrational. (I change my mind. That proof is just too beautiful.) But we need to teach the students with the highest aptitude for science, technology, engineering and math too. Concepts-based math is just right for these students. Sure, we all need to learn some actual methods, but in my view the old school way, teaching students to do endless long divisions like 1/7=0.142857142857… is not the whole story. I wished I had learned earlier the art of estimation — how to calculate on your feet an answer that is good enough, and knowing how good is good enough. These are quick methods used in science and engineering but also for doubling recipes, calculating tips, estimating your gas mileage — and knowing that 29.787 MPG is not a better answer than 30 MPG. I would have appreciated a column on this subject that interviewed parents and teachers, both here and elsewhere in the state, reporting on their responses and suggesting improvements based on those responses.
Protected areas have long been recognised as an important tool for protecting biodiversity, and are now increasingly recognised for their role in protecting carbon; recent global analyses by UNEP-WCMC (2008) have shown that approximately 15% of the global carbon stock is currently found within protected areas. Carbon emissions from deforestation account for an estimated 20% of global carbon emissions (IPCC 2007. In collaboration with the University of Copenhagen and the University of Queensland, we aim to measure protected area effectiveness, at a regional and national scale, using a landscape modelling approach. As part of this project we are working to update and analyse the Protected Areas Management Effectiveness (PAME) database, which is linked to the World Database on Protected Areas (WDPA), and holds information on the management and governance of over 6000 protected areas worldwide.
“Knowledge is Power”, this is probably one of the most famous sayings in modern world. We humans love to think, reason, and interpret. As the book 48 laws of power would put it: “Humans are machines of interpretation and explanation; they have to know what you are thinking.” This is the fundamental principal behind the fourth law. The more you talk, the more information you give away and thus, the more your power decreases. This is because by talking, we reveal our intentions, biases, quirks and personality (basically, we reveal who we are). When this information reaches the ears of other people, it can be used to stop your plans, it can be used against you or it can be used to gain your favor. On the other hand, when we say less than necessary, we put others on the defensive. The silence will make them uncomfortable and as a result, they will try to fill in the void with comment and talk. In the process they will reveal something about themselves, which you can later use against them. When King Louis XIV was in court, he would say very little. All he would say is “I shall see”; then without telling anyone, he would implement whatever he decides. His officials did not know what he wanted; as a result, the officials ended up talking more in an attempt to convince the king on their stand. They had to do this because they did not know what the king wanted, so they are unable to make decisions based on the king’s wishes. They were uncomfortable around the king because of his silence. As a result, they said a lot more thus exposing their own beliefs to the king. King Louis XIV would then use their words against them. Words once uttered cannot be returned so choose your words carefully. Hi 18 K
In addition to causing damage to your home, a rodent infestation can actually make your family sick. In fact, rats and mice can transmit more than two dozen different diseases to humans. Transmission can occur through direct contact with rodents, their droppings, urine or saliva, or indirectly through contaminated food, infected fleas, ticks or mites. If you suspect you have rats or mice in your home, call a professional! Handling rodents, infested insulation or any other contaminated materials is a potential biohazard and can lead to these common rodent-related diseases. 4 Reasons to Rid Your Home of Mice & Rats Salmonella is a food-borne bacteria that affects the digestive tract. Humans can contract salmonella if they consume food that has been contaminated by rodent droppings or food that has been prepared on a contaminated surface. Salmonella symptoms include abdominal cramps, diarrhea and fever lasting 4-7 days. Most people recover without treatment, however, young children, elderly adults and those with compromised immune systems may require hospitalization. Hantavirus is found in the droppings, urine and saliva of infected deer mice and other rodents, and when inhaled by humans it can cause a rare, but potentially fatal lung disease known as Hantavirus Pulmonary Syndrome. Symptoms are similar to that of the flu, and include fatigue, fever, chills, muscle aches, nausea, vomiting and diarrhea, as well as a dry cough, difficulty breathing, dizziness and headaches. There is no vaccine or cure, however, treatment may involve intensive care, oxygen therapy and mechanical ventilation. While more prevalent in the Western United States than here in New York and Vermont, the bubonic plague bacteria is most commonly transmitted to humans through the bite of an infected flea. Responsible for the deaths of millions in the Middle Ages, plague is now treatable with common antibiotics. However, left untreated it can cause serious illness and death. Symptoms include the sudden onset of fever, headache, chills and weakness with one or more swollen, tender and painful lymph nodes. Lymphocytic choriomeningitis, or LCM, is a rodent-borne virus primarily carried by house mice. Although rarely fatal, it can cause serious neurological problems, including encephalitis and meningitis. Humans typically contract the LCM virus after coming into contact with the urine, droppings, saliva or nesting materials of infected rodents. Early symptoms may present like the flu, with neurological symptoms appearing in the second phase of illness. Common treatments involve anti-inflammatory drugs and hospitalization depending on severity of symptoms. Prevent Rodent-Related Diseases Don’t risk your family’s health. If you live in Northern New York or Western Vermont, and you suspect you have rodents in your home, contact Nature’s Way Pest Control for a free inspection. Our professional pest control experts will inspect your home, set traps and remove any potential biohazards. We can also perform attic cleanouts, install special pest control insulation and prevent mice and rats from entering with our professional Pest Block services.
This study aimed to investigate students' opinions on using blogs for writing and giving comments among classmates outside class. Results from a questionnaire show that students consider the act of giving comments on Blogs helped them to improve their critical thinking, problem solving and communication skills. Some students felt uncomfortable to give comments when others knew who they were. However, most of the participants preferred online to discussion to face, could express ideas in the online discussion. More than 90% agreed that Blogging supports collaborative learning both in knowledge development and group sharing. Many students agreed that Free-writing was too difficult while nearly all the students indicated Blog could help them learn how to write, they learned and used new vocabulary and they improved their writing skills. Although half of the students agreed that the assignments in Blogs were too time consuming, they encouraged learner independence. Sumonta Damronglaohapan, Rajamangala University of Technology Srivijaya, Thailand Stream: Web-based Learning This paper is part of the ACTC2015 Conference Proceedings (View) View / Download the full paper in a new tab/window
In this edition of our Dominican English Dictionary, we bring you a new Dominican word, as always, you will find several examples with which we try to explain in the best way possible these words used daily by Dominicans. Dominicans are a creative people, something which is especially evident, in the way we talk – often using words that are not listed in the dictionary. Now we introduce you to a very common Dominican word specially when you want to express that a person, animal or thing is damaged or in bad shape … “Deguabinao” means “in bad shape”, or “tired” It is often used when an object is about to move into a state of uselessness. For a better understanding, next we present some of the synonyms this word has: - lack of strength - Worn out And the list continues… Estoy deguabinao/ I’m really tired. No te sientes en ese mueble que está deguabinao/ Don’t sit on that couch because it is broken. Juan cayó deguabinao de la escalera/ Juan fell down the stairs awfully.
Brunsma, David L. (2004). The school uniform movement and what it tells you about American education. Scarecrow Press. [isbn: 157886125X] is held by the University of Melbourne Library, call number: UniM ERC 371.51 BRUN Scientific School Uniform Research The scientific research on uniforms is just starting to come in. The following discusses a paper from The Journal of Education Research (Volume 92, Number 1, Sept./Oct. 1998, pp. 53-62) by David L. Brunsma from the University of Alabama and Kerry A. Rockquemore of Notre Dame: Effects of Student Uniforms on Attendance, Behavior Problems, Substance Abuse, and Academic Achievement This study showed that uniforms did not lead to an improvement in attendance, behavior, drug use, or academic achievement. Click here to read the study for yourself. Here's the abstract from their study: Mandatory uniform policies have been the focus of recent discourse on public school reform. Proponents of such reform measures emphasize the benefits of student uniforms on specific behavioral and academic outcomes. Tenth grade data from The National Educational Longitudinal Study of 1988 was used to test empirically the claims made by uniform advocates. The findings indicate that student uniforms have no direct effect on substance use, behavioral problems, or attendance. Contrary to current discourse, the authors found a negative effect of uniforms on student academic achievement. Uniform policies may indirectly affect school environments and student outcomes by providing a visible and public symbol of commitment to school improvement and reform. Brunsma and Rockquemore wanted to investigate the extraordinary claims being made about how wonderful school uniforms are, particularly from the Long Beach California. It was being claimed that mandatory uniform policies were resulting in massive decreases (50 to 100 percent) in crime and disciplinary problems. It is typically assumed, as exemplified in Long Beach, that uniforms are the sole factor causing direct change in numerous behavioral and academic outcomes. Those pronouncements by uniform proponents have raised strident objections and created a political climate in which public school uniform policies have become highly contested. The ongoing public discourse is not only entrenched in controversy but also largely fueled by conjecture and anecdotal evidence. Hence, it now seems critical that empirical analysis should be conducted to inform the school uniform debate. In this study, we investigated the relationship between uniforms and several outcomes that represent the core elements of uniform proponent's claims. Specifically, we examined how a uniform affects attendance, behavior problems, substance abuse, and academic achievement. We believe that a thorough analysis of the arguments proposed by uniform advocates will add critical insight to the ongoing debate on the effects of school uniform policies. (Brunsma and Rockquemore, 1998, pg. 54) The authors point out that if uniforms work, they should see some of the following trends in schools with uniforms: uniforms decrease substance use (drugs). 2. Student uniforms decrease behavioral problems. 3. Student uniforms increase attendance. 4. Student uniforms increase academic achievement. They suspected that when other variables affecting these four items were accounted for, it would be shown that uniforms were not the cause for improvement. How They Did Their Study They used data from the National Educational Longitudinal Study of 1988 (NELS:88), and three follow-up studies. These studies tracked a national sample of eighth graders (in 1988) from a wide variety of public and private schools and followed their academic careers through college. Some of the data collected in the studies included uniform policies, student background (economic and minority status), peer group (attitudes towards school and drug use), school achievement, and behavioral characteristics (how often did each student get into trouble, fights , suspensions, etc.). The authors concentrated on data from the students 10th Some of the independent variables they considered were sex, race, economic status, public or private school, academic or vocational "tracking", rural or urban district, peer proschool attitudes, academic preparedness, the student's own proschool attitudes, and most importantly, whether or not the students wore uniforms. The researchers wanted to determine if there was a tie between these variables and desirable behavior by the students. The areas that they were looking for improvement as a result of the previous variables included reduced absenteeism, fewer behavioral problems, reduced illegal drug use, and improved standardized test scores. The researchers considered this second group of variables to be the dependent variables. The goal of their study was to determine if there was any relationship between the independent variables (particularly uniforms) and the dependent variables. The authors took all of the data for these variables from the NELS:88 study and performed a regression analysis to see if any of the independent variables were predictors of any of the dependent variables. If there was a strong tie in the data between any two variables ( uniforms and absenteeism, for example), it would show up in the study as a correlation coefficient close to 1 or -1. A correlation coefficient near 0 indicates no relationship between the two variables. So, if wearing uniforms had a large effect on behavior, we would expect to see a correlation coefficient of say 0.5 between uniforms and measures of good behavior. If we see a very low correlation coefficient between these two, then we know that wearing uniforms has no real effect on behavior. The only positive result for uniforms that the study showed was a very slight relationship between uniforms and standardized achievement scores. The correlation coefficient was 0.05, indicating a very slight possible relationship between the two variables, but showing that uniforms are a very poor predictor of standardized test scores and that the relationship is much weaker than has been indicated in the uniform debate. Notice that 0,05 is much closer to 0 than to 1. Other than this one weak, possible relationship, uniforms struck out. In the authors own words: Student uniform use was not significantly correlated with any of the school commitment variables such as absenteeism, behavior, or substance use (drugs). In addition, students wearing uniforms did not appear to have any significantly different academic preparedness, proschool attitudes, or peer group structures with proschool attitudes than other students. Moreover, the negative correlations between the attitudinal variables and the various outcomes of interest are significant; hence, the predictive analysis provides more substantive results. In other words, the authors saw no relationship between wearing uniforms and the desirable behavior (reduced absenteeism, reduced drug usage, improved behavior). They did, however, see a strong relationship between academic preparedness, proschool attitudes, and peers having proschool attitudes and the desirable behaviors. Furthermore, they saw no relationship between wearing uniforms and the variables that do predict good behavior (academic preparedness, proschool attitudes, and peers having proschool attitudes). Based upon this analysis, the authors were forced to reject the ideas that uniforms improved attendance rates, decreased behavioral problems, decreased drug use, or improved academic achievement. The authors did find that proschool attitudes from students and their peers and good academic preparedness did predict the desired behavior. They saw that wearing uniforms did not lead to improvements in proschool attitudes or increased academic preparation. David L. Brunsma, D.L. and Rockquemore, K.A. (1998) Effects of Student Uniforms on Attendance, Behavior Problems, Substance Abuse, and Academic Achievement, The Journal of Education Research Volume 92, Number 1, Sept./Oct. 1998, Polk County School Uniforms Home Page
Dealing with a medical condition can be one of life’s greatest challenges. But health problems are exacerbated further when patients don’t have access to consistent, quality care. Such is the case for roughly 65 million Americans living in healthcare deserts today. What Are Healthcare Deserts? Healthcare deserts are defined as locations in which a population is more than 60 minutes away from the closest acute-care hospital. And with 65 million Americans already living under these conditions, the issue is only expected to get more challenging as 100,000 doctors are due to leave the industry by 2025. With these factors set for a collision course that could greatly impair the healthcare industry’s ability to provide the level of care needed for today’s patients, telehealth appears to be the answer to resolving this looming issue. The Benefits of Telehealth Services in Rural Areas By introducing telehealth services, patients will be empowered by gaining a direct line of communication with their medical team from the comfort of their own home. This proves particularly effective in cases where a specialist, not a primary care physician, is required. This opinion was recently espoused by the Children’s Health Fund, which claims that 15 million American youths reside in areas with fewer than one health professional for every 3,500 residents. The group argued that both time and transportation are significant barriers for children in need of specialty care—even those with insurance. Those in poor, rural areas are even more at risk of receiving inadequate medical care. The introduction of telehealth services in rural areas would enable families to connect with doctors from around the country, including the types of specialists that generally flock to urban centers. Who Could Benefit from Telehealth Services? The introduction of telehealth services will ensure a higher quality of care for these 15 million children, but will the same impact be felt for an aging adult population? The answer is a resounding yes. While children may be able to rely on their families to manage the logistics of getting to and from a doctor, an impaired adult may be on their own. Additionally, it is the Baby Boomer population driving a surge in demand for healthcare at either their own home or from within the comfortable confines of an assisted living facility. Despite the numerous benefits of telehealth services, the aforementioned Children’s Health Fund whitepaper referred to several challenges that still act as implements to wider telehealth adoption: · Legal and licensing barriers preventing telehealth from crossing state lines · Lack of access to Internet or smart phones · Inability of healthcare systems and small practices to afford telehealth technologies · Lack of a system reimbursement for consulting specialists and primary care teams · Quality assurance and regulatory concerns However, though these challenges are very real, selecting the right telehealth services provider will be able to offer a comprehensive and systematic method for building a program that addresses these concerns while increasing your ability to improve patient outcomes simultaneously. Discover how an effective telehealth program can improve your healthcare organization, and benefit those in rural areas.
Honoured in Lewes for centuries, St Pancras has been one of Rome’s own favourite saints ever since he was martyred there in 304 during the Diocletian persecution. Christian Roman soldiers adopted the youthful saint as a patron. Little else is known about him. He may have been the patron of Pope St Gregory the Great’s English mission, led by St Augustine. He dedicated his first English Church to St Pancras in Canterbury in 597. Lewes quickly became the third most significant Pancras site in England, after Canterbury and London. In the 1070s, a Saxon Church, St Pancras, became the nucleus of the important Cluniac Priory of St Pancras, which was dissolved in 1573. When the 1829 Catholic Emancipation Act allowed Catholics to worship openly, Mass was said at 10 Priory Crescent, overlooking the priory ruins. When a church was built in 1870, St Pancras was the obvious choice for patron. The Priest’s house was built at the same time as the church of 1870. Two cottages on the corner of Irelands Lane, on the site of the present forecourt, were used as a parish school. These buildings and their furnishings were all paid for by the parents of the first parish priest Fr Hubert Wood. Mrs Wood also made several fine vestments, some of which are still in use today. In 1930 St Pancras Catholic Primary School was built in De Montfort Road, allowing redevelopment in Irelands Lane. At that time the first church was in a poor state of repair and had to be pulled down. The present church, built in1939, was designed by Edward Walters and cost £7500. The stained Glass windows in the nave and chancel are from the first church and there is also a commemorative tablet to be found in the Lady Chapel. Other stained glass windows have been added more recently, with St Philip Howard commemorating the fiftieth anniversary of the church in 1989, and a modern design marking the new millennium. A number of re-arrangements to the interior of the church have occurred over the years, with the most recent development being the addition of the Cluny Annexe consisting of the Wood Room and Challoner Hall. This build replaces the previous Canon O Donnell Hall sited a few hundred yards up the road on the island formed by Spital Road and Western Road.
Catsear Treatment Guide Catsear, also known as flatweed and false dandelion, is a low-lying perennial weed often found in lawns, pastures, and nature strips. The weed can tolerate drought and low nutrient soils well, if catsear is overtaking lawn this often indicates poor soil health. Often mistaken for true dandelion (Taraxacum officinale) due to its remarkably similar appearance. Catsear forms as a flat basal rosette with rough leaves covered in stiff hairs. It has leafless flower stems with up to 7 bright yellow flowers on each branched stem. Catsear can be distinguished from Dandelion due to its rough, hairy leaves and multi branched stems with several flowers whereas dandelions have unbranched, hollow flower stems with a single flower. How to Kill Catsear To treat 200m2 of turf, mix 130mL of Cutlass M Herbicide into 5-8L of water apply to actively growing weeds and moist soil. - Do not mow turf for two days before or after application - Only spray actively growing weeds - Ensure all weeds are thoroughly wet from application - Avoid fertilising within two weeks of spraying - Do not re-apply to Buffalo Grass within 12 months Always read product label prior to use.
Quality control is the component of quality monitoring that guarantees services and products adhere to needs. It is a work approach that promotes the measurement of the quality attributes of a device, compares them with the established requirements, and also analyses the distinctions between the results acquired as well as the wanted cause order to make choices which will certainly correct any kind of distinctions. Technical requirements specify the kind of controls that need to be performed to ensure the building works are performed correctly. They include not only products products, yet likewise the execution as well as completion of the works. One way of managing quality is based upon the evaluation or confirmation of ended up products. The purpose is to filter the products prior to they get to the customer, so that products that do not follow demands are thrown out or fixed. This reception control is typically lugged out by individuals that were not involved in the production tasks, which implies that prices can be high, and also preventative tasks and enhancement strategies may not be reliable. It is a final control, situated between manufacturer as well as customer, and also although it has the advantage of being impartial, it has a lot of drawbacks, such as slow-moving details moves, which the inspectors are not acquainted with the conditions of production and are exempt for the production quality. When examinations are damaging, the choice to approve or turn down a full batch should be made on the basis of the quality of an arbitrary example. This type of analytical control offers less details as well as contains sampling dangers. Nevertheless, it is more affordable, calls for less inspectors, and speeds up decision-making, while the denial of the entire set motivates suppliers to boost their quality. This sort of control can likewise recognize the sources of variants and also, so establish procedures for their systematic elimination. Analytical control can be put on the final product (acceptance control) or throughout the production process (process control). Statistical controls at function establish sampling plans with clearly-defined acceptance or rejection criteria, and total batches are examined using arbitrary tasting. The sampling control can be based upon evaluation by characteristics in accordance with the ISO standards. A building and construction company must minimize the expenses of bad quality as high as possible, and make certain that the outcome of its processes adhere to the customer's demands. Both inner and also outside controls can be accomplished. For instance, the control of concrete received by the service provider can be performed by an independent entity; the execution of steelworks can be managed by the project supervisor (on behalf of the customer), or the building and construction company can establish an interior control for the implementation of the building job. Quality control is a set of prepared and also systematic activities to ensure that product or services abide by specific needs. It not only entails examining the final quality of items to stay clear of flaws, as holds true in quality control, but likewise checking product quality in a planned method in all the production phases. It is the advancement of work and item style treatments to stop mistakes from occurring to begin with, based on planning backed up by quality guidebooks as well as devices. When an agreement has been gotten to on the requirements of a quality administration system, it is feasible to specify a series of common requirements suitable to any sort of organisation. The worldwide criteria, generically called ISO 9001, are one of the most prevalent as well as normally accepted in established nations. The ISO 9001 criteria is composed of 4 basic synergistic standards supported by overviews, technological records and also technological requirements. Firms can just be certified under the demands of the ISO 9001 standard. It is a standard that can be made use of to certify the efficiency of a quality administration system. Nonetheless, if the purpose is to improve effectiveness, the objectives of the ISO 9004 standard are broader in extent. The principles that underlie the management of quality in these requirements are the following: customer focus, management, participation of individuals, procedure technique, system method to administration, continual renovation, factual technique to decision production and also equally valuable distributor relationships. The ISO 9001 standard defines requirements for a quality management system where an organisation needs to demonstrate its capability to consistently offer products that fulfill the needs of clients and applicable laws demands. Regulative needs concentrate on the quality monitoring system, monitoring duty, resources management, product realisation and also dimension, analysis and also improvement. When a quality system is ISO 9001 consultants put on an item as complicated and special as construction, a certain quality strategy must be prepared by applying the firm's global system to the certain project. The strategy should be composed by the contractor before the beginning of the construction functions and will be evaluated throughout its execution. The quality strategy applies to the products, work systems as well as solutions that have been particularly selected by the construction business in order to abide by the quality requirements stated in the agreement. The quality strategy is prepared for the building functions when a preventative method is needed to guarantee the building and construction quality, also though there may also be a quality handbook, in conformity with the ISO 9001 typical requirements.
Editor's note: Naina Subberwal Batra is the chairperson and CEO at the Asian Venture Philanthropy Network, a Singapore-based non-profit that has offices in 13 countries around the world, including Vietnam. AVPN has over 487 members from 32 countries and undertakes field building activities in Asia while providing a range of networking and learning services to support its members and followers to create meaningful social impact. We are drowning in plastics. Unless we change our behavior, there will be more plastic by weight than fish in the ocean by 2050. Solving this crisis requires us to do more than just banning plastic straws. We need a paradigm shift. We must adopt deep structural changes to our plastic production and consumption patterns in order to move away from the extractive linear model of ‘take, make, use and dispose’ towards a ‘closed-loop’ circular economy – an economy that is intentionally restorative. Over the past year, governments in Southeast Asia have been in the hot seat over plastic pollution. Indonesia, the Philippines, Thailand and Vietnam are some of the world’s top plastic polluters. Together with China, they account for up to 60 percent of the plastic waste leaking into our oceans. In our joint report with ECCA Family Trust – released last week – we identify the main challenges as a lack of infrastructure and financing, poor public awareness, poor execution of recycling policies, illegal dumping, as well as unplanned industrial development. The good news is that governments at both the national and city levels are stepping up their efforts to reduce plastic pollution. Vietnam accounts for six percent of global marine plastic garbage flows or some 0.28-0.73 million metric tons annually. Last week, Prime Minister Nguyen Xuan Phuc approved the National Action Plan on Ocean Waste Management by 2030. This plan aims to reduce plastic debris discharged into the ocean by 75 percent and end the usage of disposable plastic products and fishing gear in coastal tourist resorts within the next 10 years. At the city level, the Chairman of the People’s Committee of Phu Quoc District has signed up to the WWF Plastic Smart Cities initiative announced last month and launching in February next year. WWF is working with district officials to develop an action plan to fight plastic pollution, establish circular economy projects, and test innovative solutions. These efforts are laudable but we cannot rely on governments alone. To solve the problem, we need coordinated multi-stakeholder support for a circular economy. Consumer-goods companies have been struggling to rethink their plastic packaging but an investment fund in Singapore may drive change. Last week, investment management firm Circulate Capital closed its debut Circulate Capital Ocean Fund with a total capital commitment of US$106 million from PepsiCo, Danone, Unilever, and The Coca-Cola Company, among others. The fund will make debt and equity investments across the entire plastics value chain – from alternative materials to waste management infrastructure to advanced recycling technology. It seeks to demonstrate that investments in turning plastic from waste into a resource can provide attractive financial returns. More and more closed-loop circular economy initiatives are emerging amongst local communities and entrepreneurs. In Vietnam, for example, Evergreen Labs develops and supports businesses to address pressing environmental and social challenges, including waste management. One of these is ReForm, a scalable social franchise model. ReForm uses the existing infrastructure of garbage collection centers and transforms them into small production facilities. The centers are equipped with low-cost machinery that enables workers to produce new tradable products. In addition to transforming low-grade plastic that might not otherwise be collected or reutilized, it improves the income of waste pickers, generates new jobs, and creates a local circular economy. This example represents a low-cost solution that, when scaled and connected to other efforts, could potentially move the needle on plastic waste. These questions of scale and coordination are important ones. And it is where networks like AVPN demonstrate their true value. We help to remove barriers to scale by providing platforms and mechanisms that connect investors and capacity-builders with social enterprises and non-profits who require both financial and non-financial resources. The AVPN Southeast Asia Summit, happening in Bali, Indonesia in February next year, is one such platform that helps social investors build their awareness of new opportunities and find local collaborators. Similarly, our Climate Action Platform (CAP) brings together the widest possible range of stakeholders to collectively develop the scale, support and investment to tackle climate change. Projects like those by Evergreen Labs are exactly the kind of opportunities that the CAP presents to investors. I believe there are sizeable and valuable opportunities to create a circular economy within the plastics value chain in Southeast Asia. But at present efforts are too fragmented and uncoordinated to have impact scale. The Ellen MacArthur Foundation estimates that 95 percent of the material value of plastic packaging – valued at between US$80 and $120 billion annually – is lost to the global economy after a brief initial use. If we – investors, businesses, governments, and consumers – can move the plastics industry into a positive spiral of value capture, we will do an enormous service to both our oceans and our economy. A world in which plastic never becomes waste is not beyond the realms of possibility. But for it to become a reality, we need to work together.
<< Back to full list of biographies The 4th Duke of Portland began his education in Ealing, at the school run by Dr Samuel Goodenough (later Bishop of Carlisle). He later went on to attend Westminster School and then Oxford University, though he spent only a brief amount of time at the latter after his father, the 3rd Duke, decided to send him to complete his education at The Hague. William was an active politician. In 1790 he became M.P. for Petersfield, and in 1791 he was elected for Buckinghamshire - a seat which he then held for five successive parliaments without ever being opposed. Between 1794 and 1842 he held the position of Lord Lieutenant of Buckinghamshire. In 1806 he rejected an offer from Lord Grenville to enter the House of Lords through the family barony of Ogle, because he differed with the administration on a number of issues. Shortly afterwards, a new government was formed headed by his father, the 3rd Duke, and William was appointed a junior Lord of the Treasury, but he held the post for only a few months. In terms of his political beliefs, the 4th Duke became more and more liberal as time went on, and after his succession to the dukedom developed a close association with George Canning. When Canning formed a government in 1827, the 4th Duke accepted the office of Lord Privy Seal. He later held the post of Lord President in Viscount Goderich's short-lived administration. He had no real desire for political office, however, and after his period as Lord President ended he took little further part in national political life. He did, though, take an active interest in political affairs through the activities of his son, Lord George Bentinck. From his position outside the government, the 4th Duke continued to follow politics closely. He was a supporter of the Reform Bill and a prominent supporter of agricultural protection. As a result, he used his political influence to oppose the Earl of Lincoln in the bitter battle for the South Nottinghamshire constituency in 1846. The 4th Duke was heavily involved in the management of the family estates, and, after finding them burdened with debts when he inherited, was highly successful in reversing the financial situation. He was particularly interested in farming methods and techniques and undertook several drainage schemes, gaining a reputation as an agricultural improver. He was also central to the development of Troon Harbour in Ayrshire, Scotland, and to the construction of the railway which linked to it. Other interests included the study of shipbuilding and naval design. He arranged a number of trials with the Admiralty, in which his own and other private yachts competed with some of the fastest ships in the navy. The duke was also a keen devotee of horse racing. He was a tenant of the Jockey Club at Newmarket, and was responsible for many improvements there, including the turf, the gallops and the building of the Portland stand. In 1795 he married Henrietta Scott (d 1844) of Balcomie, Fife, by whom he had 9 children: - William Henry (1796-1824), Marquess of Titchfield - William John (1800-1879), Marquess of Titchfield from 1824 and later 5th Duke of Portland - [William] George Frederick (1802-1848), politician - [William] Henry (1804-1870), M.P. - Margaret Harriet (1798-1882), - Caroline (d 1828) - Charlotte (1806-1889), m John Evelyn Denison, later Viscount Ossington in 1827 - Lucy (1808-1899), m Charles Augustus, Baron Howard de Walden in 1828 - Mary (1810-1874), m Sir William Topham in 1874 - The 4th Duke's papers are part of the Portland (Welbeck) Collection held in Manuscripts and Special Collections and include extensive personal, political and estate correspondence - The Portland (London) Collection, also held in Manuscripts and Special Collections, contains papers relating to the estate business of the 4th Duke - The Portland Estate Papers held at Nottinghamshire Archives also contain items relating to the 4th Duke's properties - Details of collections held elsewhere are available through the National Register of Archives. Though there are no published biographies exclusively dedicated to the 4th Duke of Portland, his biographical details feature in the following: - Turberville, A.S., A History of Welbeck Abbey and its Owners, Volume 2, Chapters 15, 16 and 17 (London, 1938)
Footprints on the Moon This is a special encore presentation of the Quantum episode which was made to celebrate the 20th anniversary of the first Moon landing. First broadcast in 1989, this definitive account wonderfully captures the spirit of the times and the excitement behind the first mission to land on the Moon. At 12:56pm AEST on July 21, 1969 Neil Armstrong became the first human to walk on the Moon. It was the culmination of over 10 years of intense competition between the United States and the Soviet Union that used up massive resources and money and saw the sacrifice of human lives in the race for space supremacy. So what was the fascination with going to the Moon? And why spend so much effort on reaching it, only to seemingly abandon interest after three and a half years of manned lunar landings? For the answers we invite you to step back in time and relive the race to get the first man on the Moon. What are your memories of the Moon landing? Do you remember where you were when you first saw the amazing images beamed back from the moon? Even if you weren't alive at time, what significance does the moon landing hold for you today? And should we be going back to the Moon? Share your memories on our message board.
Stem canker disease of soybean is caused by the fungus, Diaporthe phaseolorum var. caulivora, and at present there are no soybean varieties known to be highly resistant to this disease. Stem canker takes its name from the resemblance of the discolored area of an infected stem to a canker. As the infected area on a stem enlarges, the stem is girdled and the portion of the plant above the girdled area is killed. Stem canker seriously affects soybeans in the northcentral region of the United States and has been reported to cause heavy losses (Athow and Caldwell, 1954; and Dunleavy, 1954, 1955). A description of the disease and the casual organism has been published by Welch and Gilman (1948) and Athow and Caldwell (1954). Differences in varietal susceptibility have been reported by Hildebrand (1953a) and Beeson and Probst (1955). Proceedings of the Iowa Academy of Science © Copyright 1956 by the Iowa Academy of Science, Inc. Dunleavy, John M. "A Method for Determining Stem Canker Resistance in Soybean," Proceedings of the Iowa Academy of Science, 63(1), 274-279. Available at: https://scholarworks.uni.edu/pias/vol63/iss1/22
The Little Robber Girl The Boy Who Cried Wolf AMERICAN INDIAN STORIES Animal Sketches And Stories Blondine Bonne Biche and Beau Minon BRER RABBIT and HIS NEIGHBORS CHINESE MOTHER-GOOSE RHYMES FABLES FOR CHILDREN FABLES FROM INDIA FATHER PLAYS AND MOTHER PLAYS FIRST STORIES FOR VERY LITTLE FOLK For Classes Ii. And Iii. For Classes Iv. And V. For Kindergarten And Class I. FUN FOR VERY LITTLE FOLK Good Little Henry JAPANESE AND OTHER ORIENTAL TALES] Jean De La Fontaine King Alexander's Adventures KINGS AND WARRIORS LAND AND WATER FAIRIES Lessons From Nature LITTLE STORIES that GROW BIG MODERN FAIRY TALES MOTHER GOOSE CONTINUED MOTHER GOOSE JINGLES MOTHER GOOSE SONGS AND STORIES Myths And Legends NEGLECT THE FIRE ON POPULAR EDUCATION PLACES AND FAMILIES Poems Of Nature RESURRECTION DAY (EASTER) RHYMES CONCERNING "MOTHER" RIDING SONGS for FATHER'S KNEE ROMANCES OF THE MIDDLE AGES SAINT VALENTINE'S DAY Selections From The Bible SLEEPY-TIME SONGS AND STORIES Some Children's Poets Songs Of Life STORIES BY FAVORITE AMERICAN WRITERS STORIES FOR CHILDREN STORIES for LITTLE BOYS STORIES FROM BOTANY STORIES FROM GREAT BRITAIN STORIES FROM IRELAND STORIES FROM PHYSICS STORIES FROM SCANDINAVIA STORIES FROM ZOOLOGY STORIES _for_ LITTLE GIRLS THE DAYS OF THE WEEK The King Of The Golden River; Or, The Black Brothers The Little Grey Mouse THE OLD FAIRY TALES The Princess Rosette THE THREE HERMITS THE TWO OLD MEN UNCLES AND AUNTS AND OTHER RELATIVES VERSES ABOUT FAIRIES WHAT MEN LIVE BY WHERE LOVE IS, THERE GOD IS ALSO The Dragon's Tail from Fairy Tales From The German Forests I wonder if the girls and boys who read these stories, have heard of the charming and romantic town of Eisenach? I suppose not, for it is a curious fact that few English people visit the place, though very many Americans go there. Americans are well known to have a special interest in old places with historical associations, because they have nothing of the sort in America; moreover many of them are Germans by birth, and have heard stories of the Wartburg, that beautiful old castle, which from the summit of a hill, surrounded by woods, overlooks the town of The Wartburg is quaintly built with dear little turrets and gables, and high towers, a long curving wall with dark beams like the peasant cottages, and windows looking out into the forest. It belongs at present to the Grand duke of Sachsen-Weimar-Eisenach. Every stone and corner of the Wartburg is connected with some old story For instance there is the hall with the raised dais at one end and beautiful pillars supporting the roof where minnesingers of old times used to hold their great "musical festivals" as we should say nowadays. There was keen competition for the prizes that were offered in reward for the best music and songs. In the castle are also the rooms of St Elizabeth, that sweet saint who was so good to the poor, and who suffered so terribly herself in parting from her husband and children. Then there is the lion on the roof who could tell a fine tale if he chose; the great banqueting hall and the little chapel. On the top of the tower is a beautiful cross that is lit up at night by electric light and can be seen from a great distance in the country round. This is of course a modern addition. But the most interesting room in the castle is that where Dr Martin Luther spent his time translating the Bible. A reward had been offered to anyone who should kill this arch-heretic; so his friends brought him disguised as a knight to the Wartburg, and very few people knew of his As you look through the latticed windows of that little room, the exquisite blue and purple hills of the Thueringen-Wald stretch away in the distance, and no human habitation is to be seen. There too you may see the famous spot on the wall where Luther threw the inkpot at the devil. To be correct you can see the hole where the ink-stain used to be; for visitors have cut away every trace of the ink, and even portions of the old wooden bedstead. There is the writing-desk with the translation of the Bible, and the remarkable footstool that consisted of the bone of a mammoth. Those were the days in which a man risked his life for his faith; but they were the days also, we must remember, of witchcraft and magic. One other story of the Wartburg I must narrate in order to give you some idea of the interest that still surrounds the place, and influences the children who grow up there. It was in the days of the old Emperor The sister of the Emperor whose name was Jutta, was married to the Landgraf Ludwig of Thueringen, and they lived at the Wartburg. One day when Barbarossa came to visit them, he observed that the castle had no outer walls round it, as was usual in those days. "What a pity," he said, "that such a fine castle should be unprotected by walls and ramparts, it ought to be more strongly fortified." "Oh," said Landgraf Ludwig, "if that is all the castle needs, it can soon have them." "How soon?" said the Emperor, mockingly. "In the space of three days," answered his brother-in-law. "That could only be possible with the aid of the devil," said Barbarossa, "otherwise it could not be done." "Wait and see for yourself," said the Landgraf. On the third day of his visit, Ludwig said to the Emperor: "Would you care to see the walls? They are finished now." Barbarossa crossed himself several times, and prepared for some fearful manifestation of black magic; but what was his surprise to see a living wall round the castle of stout peasants and burghers, ready armed, with weapons in their hands; the banners of well-known knights and lords waved their pennants in the wind where battlements should have been. The Emperor was much astonished, and called out: "Many thanks, brother-in-law, for your lesson; stronger walls I have never seen, nor better fitted together." "Rough stones they may some of them be," said the Landgraf, "yet I can rely on them, as you see." Now as you may imagine, the children who grow up in this town, must have their heads full of these tales, and many poets and artists have been inspired by the beauties of Eisenach. The natural surroundings of the town are so wonderful, that they also provide rich material for the Helmut was a boy who lived in Eisenach. He was eight years old, and went to a day school. He lived outside the town, not far from the entrance to the forest. He was a pale, fair-haired little boy, and did not look the tremendous hero he fancied himself in his dreams; not even when he buckled on helmet, breast-plate and sword, and marched out into the street to take his part in the warfare that went on constantly there, between the boys of this neighbourhood, and the boys who belonged to another part of the town. Now the Dragon's Gorge is a most marvellous place; it is surrounded on all sides by thick forests, and you come on it suddenly when walking in the woods. It is a group of huge green rocks like cliffs that stand picturesquely piled close together, towering up to the sky. There is only a very narrow pathway between them. Helmut had often been there with his father and mother or with other boys. After heavy rain or thawing snow it became impassable; at the best of times it was advisable for a lady not to put on her Sunday hat, especially if it were large and had feathers; for the rocks are constantly dripping with water. The great boulders are covered with green moss or tiny ferns; and in the spring time, wood sorrel grows on them in great patches, the under side of the leaves tinged an exquisite violet or pink colour. The entrance to the Dragon's Gorge is through these rocks; they narrow and almost meet overhead, obscuring the sky, till it seems as if one were walking under the sea. Two persons cannot walk side by side here. In some parts, indeed, one can only just squeeze through; the way winds in and out in the most curious manner; there are little side passages too, that you could hardly get into at all. In some places you can hear the water roaring under your feet; then the rocks end abruptly and you come out into the forest again, and hear the birds singing and see the little brook dancing along by the side of the way. Altogether it is the most fascinating, wet and delightful walk that you could imagine. Helmut had long been planning an expedition to these rocks in company with other boy friends, in order to slay the dragon. He dreamt of it day and night, until he brought home a bad mark for "attention" in his school report. He told his mother about it; she laughed and said he might leave the poor old fellow alone; there were plenty of dragons to slay at home, self-will, disobedience, inattention, and so on! She made a momentary impression on the little boy, who always wanted to be good but found it difficult at times, curious to say, to carry out his He looked thoughtful and answered: "Of course, mother, I know; but this time I want to slay a 'really and truly' dragon, may I? Will you let me go with the other boys, it would be such fun?" The Dragon's Gorge was not far off, and mother did not think that Helmut could do himself any harm, except by getting wet and dirty, and that he might do as well in the garden at home. "If you put on your old suit and your thick boots, I think you may go. Keep with the other boys and promise me not to get lost!" "Oh, I say, won't it be fine fun! I'll run off and tell the other fellows. Hurrah!" and Helmut ran off into the street. Soon four heads were to be seen close together making plans for the next day. "We'll start quite early at six o'clock," they said, "and take our second breakfast with us." (In Germany eleven o'clock lunch is called second breakfast.) However it was seven o'clock a.m. before the boys had had their first breakfast, and met outside the house. How mother and father laughed to see the little fellows, all dressed in the most warlike costumes like miniature soldiers, armed with guns and Mother was a little anxious and hoped they would come to no harm; but she liked her boy to be independent, and knew how happy children are if left to play their pretence games alone. She watched the four set off at a swinging march down the street. Soon they had recruits, for it was a holiday, and there were plenty of boys about. Helmut was commanding officer; the boys shouldered their guns, or presented arms as he directed. They passed the pond and followed the stream through the woods, until they came to the Dragon's Gorge, where the rocks rise up suddenly high and imposing looking. Here they could only proceed in single file. Helmut headed the band feeling as courageous as in his dreams; his head swam with elation. Huge walls towered above them; the rocks dropped water on their heads. As yet they had seen or heard nothing of the dragon. Yet as they held their breath to listen, they could hear something roaring under their feet. "Don't you tell me that that is only water," said Helmut, "A little brook can't make such a row as that--that's the dragon." The other boys laughed, they were sceptical as to the dragon, and were only pretending, whereas Helmut was in earnest. "I'm hungry," said one boy, "supposing we find a dry place and have our They came to where the path wound out again into the open air, and sat down on some stones, which could hardly be described as dry. Here they ate bread and sausage, oranges and bananas. "Give me the orange peel, you fellows. Mother hates us to throw it about; it makes the place so untidy." So saying Helmut pushed his orange peel right into a crevice of the rock and covered it with old leaves. But the other boys laughed at him, and chucked theirs into the little stream, which made Helmut very angry. "I won't be your officer any more, if you do not do as I say," he said, and they began to quarrel. "We're not going to fight your old dragon, we're going home again to play football, that will be far better fun," said the boys who had joined as recruits, and they went off home, till only Helmut's chums were left. They were glad enough to get rid of the other boys. "We have more chance of seeing the dragon without those stupid fellows," They finished their lunch, shouldered their guns again, and entered the second gorge, which is even more picturesque and narrow than the first. Suddenly Helmut espied something round, and slimy, and long lying on the path before him like a blind worm, but much thicker than blind worms generally are. He became fearfully excited, "Come along you fellows, hurry up," he said, "I do believe it is the dragon's tail!" They came up close behind him and looked over his shoulders; the gorge was so narrow here that they could not pass one another. "Good gracious!" they said, "whatever shall we do now?" They all felt frightened at the idea of a real dragon, but they stood to their guns like men, all but the youngest, Adolf, who wanted to run away home; but the others would not let him. "Helmut catch hold of it, quick now," whispered Werner and Wolf, the other two boys. Helmut stretched out his hand courageously; perhaps it was only a huge, blind worm after all; but as he tried to catch it, the thing slipped swiftly away. They all followed it, running as fast as they could through the narrow gorge, bumping themselves against the walls, scratching themselves and tearing their clothes, but all the time Helmut never let that tail (if it was a tail) out of his sight. "If we had some salt to put on it," said he, "we might catch it like a "It would be a fine thing to present to a museum," said Wolf. Well, that thing led them a fine dance. It would stop short, and then when they thought they had got it, it started off again, until they were all puffing and blowing. "We've got to catch it somehow," said Helmut, who thought the chase fine sport. At that moment the gorge opened out again into the woods, and the tail gave them the slip; for it disappeared in a crevice of the rock where there was no room for a boy to follow it. "It was a blind worm you see," said Werner. Presently, however, they heard a noise as of thunder, and looking down the path they saw a head glaring at them out of the rocks, undeniably a dragon's head, with a huge jaw, red tongue, and rows of jagged teeth. The boys stared aghast: they were in for an adventure this time, and no mistake. Slowly the dragon raised himself out of the rocks, so that they saw his whole scaly length, like a huge crocodile. Then he began to move along the path away from them. He moved quite slowly now, so there was no difficulty in keeping up with him; but his tail was so slimy and slippery that they could not keep hold of it; moreover it wriggled dreadfully whenever they tried to seize it. But Helmut had inherited the cool courage of the Wartburg knights, and he was not going to be overcome by difficulties. With a wild Indian whoop he sprang on the dragon's back, and all the other boys followed his example, except little Adolf who was timid and began to set up a howl for his mother, I'm sorry to say. No sooner were the boys on his back than the dragon set off at a fine trot up and down the Dragon's Gorge, they had to hold on tight and to duck whenever the rock projected overhead, or when they went sharply round a corner. "Hurrah," cried Helmut waving a flag, "this is better than a motor ride. Isn't he a jolly old fellow?" At this remark the jolly old fellow stopped dead and began to snort out fire and smoke, that made the boys cough and choke. "Now stop that, will you!" said Helmut imperatively, "or we shall have to slay you after all, that's what we came out for you know." He pointed his gun at the head of the dragon as he spoke like a real hero. The dragon began to tremble, and though they could only see his profile, they thought he turned pale. "Where's that other little boy?" he asked in a hollow voice. "If you will give him to me for my dinner, I will spare you all." Helmut laughed scornfully, "Thanks, old fellow," he said--"you're very kind, I'm sure Adolf would be much obliged to you. I expect he's run home to his mother long ago; he's a bit of a funk, we shan't take him with us another time." "He looked so sweet and juicy and tender," said the dragon sighing, "I never get a child for dinner nowadays! Woe is me," he sniffed. "You are an old cannibal," said the boys horrified, and mistaking the meaning of the word cannibal. "Hurry up now and give us another ride, it's first-rate fun this!" The dragon groaned and seemed disinclined to stir, but the boys kicked him with their heels, and there was nothing for it but to gee-up. After he had been up and down several times, and the boys' clothes were nearly torn to pieces, he suddenly turned into a great crevice in the rocks that led down into a dark passage, and the boys felt really frightened for the first time. Daylight has a wonderfully bracing effect on the nerves. In a moment, however, a few rays of sunshine penetrated the black darkness, and they saw that they were in a small cave. The next thing they experienced was that the dragon shook himself violently, and the small boys fell off his back like apples from a tree on to the wet and sloppy floor. They picked themselves up again in a second, and there they saw the dragon before them, panting after his exertions and filling the cavern with a poisonous-smelling smoke. Helmut and Wolf and Werner stood near the cracks which did the duty of windows, and held their pistols pointed at him. Luckily he was too stupid to know that they were only toy guns, and when they fired them off crack-crack, they soon discovered that he was in a terrible fright. "What have I done to you, young sirs?" he gasped out. "What have I done to you, that you should want to shoot me? Yet shoot me! yes, destroy me if you will and end my miserable existence!" He began to groan until the cavern reverberated with his cries. "What's the matter now, old chappie?" said Helmut, who, observing the weakness of the enemy, had regained his courage. "I am an anachronism," said the dragon, "don't you know what that is?--well, I am one born out of my age. I am a survival of anything but the fittest. You are the masters now, you miserable floppy-looking race of mankind. You can shoot me, you can blow me up with dynamite, you can poison me, you can stuff me--Oh, oh--you can put me into a cage in the Zoological Gardens, you have flying dragons in the sky who could drop on me suddenly and crush me. You have the power. We great creatures of bygone ages have only been able to creep into the rocks and caves to hide from your superior cleverness and your wily machinations. We must perish while you go on like the brook for ever." So saying he began to shed great tears, that dropped on the floor splash, splash, like the water from the rocks. The boys felt embarrassed: this was not their idea of manly conduct, and considerably lowered their opinion of dragons in general. "Do not betray me, young sirs," went on the dragon in a pathetic and weepy voice, "I have managed so far to lie here concealed though multitudes of people have passed this way and never perceived me." "I tell you what," said Helmut touched by the dragon's evident terror, "let's make friends with him, boys; he's given us a nice ride for nothing; we will present him with the flag of truce." Turning to the dragon he said: "Allow us to give you a banana and a roll in token of our friendship and esteem." "O," said the dragon brightening up, "I like bananas. People often throw the skins away here. I prefer them to orange peel. I live on such things, you must know, the cast-off refuse of humanity," he said, becoming tragic again. They presented him with the banana, and he ate it skin and all, it seemed to give him an appetite. He appeared to recover his spirits, and the boys thought it would be better to look for the way out. The cavern seemed quite smooth and round, except for the cracks through which the daylight came; they could not discover the passage by which they had entered. The dragon's eyes were beginning to look bloodthirsty; remembrances of his former strength shot across his dulled brains. He could crush and eat these little boys after all and nobody would be the wiser. Little boys tasted nicer than bananas even. Meanwhile Wolf and Werner had stuck their flags through the holes in the rocks, so that they were visible from the outside. Now little Adolf had gone straight home, and had told awful tales of the games the others were up to, and he conducted the four mothers to the Dragon's Gorge where they wandered up and down looking for their boys. Adolf observed the flags sticking up on the rocks, and drew attention to them. The Dragon's Gorge resounded with the cries of "Helmut! Wolf! The dragon heard the voices as well; his evil intentions died away; the chronic fear of discovery came upon him again. He grew paler and paler; clouds of smoke came from his nostrils, until he became invisible. At the same moment Helmut groping against the wall that lay in shadow, found the opening of the passage through which they had come. Through this the three boys now crawled, hardly daring to breathe, for fear of exciting the dragon again. Soon a gleam of light at the other end told of their deliverance. Their tender mothers fell on their necks, and scolded them at the same time. Truly, never did boys look dirtier or "We feel positively ashamed to go home with you," their mothers said to "Well, for once I was jolly glad you did come, mother," said Helmut. "That treacherous old dragon wanted to turn on us after all; he might have devoured us, if you had not turned up in the nick of time. Not that I believe that he really would have done anything of the sort, he was a coward you know, and when we levelled our guns at him he was awfully frightened. Still he might have found out that our guns were not properly loaded, and then it would have been unpleasant." Mother smiled, she did not seem to take the story quite so seriously as "We had a gorgeous ride on his back, mother dear; would you like to see him? You have only to lie down flat and squeeze yourself through that crack in the rocks till you come to his cave." "No thank you," said mother, "I think I can do without seeing your "Oh, we have forgotten our flags!" called out Wolf and Werner, "wait a minute for us," and they climbed up over the rocks and rescued the flags. "He's still in there," they whispered to Helmut in a mysterious "Mother," said Helmut that evening when she came to wish him good night, "do you know, if you stand up to a dragon like a man, and are not afraid of him, he is not so difficult to vanquish after all." "I'm glad you think so," said mother, "'Volo cum Deo'--there is a Latin proverb for you; it means, that with God's help, will-power is the chief thing necessary; this even dragons know. Thus a little boy can conquer even greater dragons than the monsters vast of ages past." "Hum!" said Helmut musingly, "mother, dear, I was a real hero to-day, I think you would have been proud of me; but I must confess between ourselves, that the old dragon was a bit of a fool!" Next: The Easter Hare Previous: The Old King
The Imitation Game may have been virtually shut out of this year’s Oscars, winning only Best Adapted Screenplay. But for many, the mere existence of The Imitation Game was far more important than any awards it might receive. It was a recognition that gay people can not only contribute to society, but in the case of Alan Turing, almost singlehandedly saved 14 million British lives and shortened World War II for the British by at least two years. Turing, it will be recalled, was the mathematician who invented a machine that cracked the Nazi regime’s “unbreakable” coding device, Enigma, reports XBiz. But as the movie (and book which preceded it) points out, despite Turing’s brilliance, the fact that he was homosexual led him to be targeted by police, banned from further government work, arrested and chemically castrated to dampen his “urges” — and he eventually committed suicide in 1954 by drinking cyanide. A bit belatedly, the British government issued an apology for its treatment of Turing in 2009, and Turing himself was eventually pardoned by Queen Elizabeth II under what’s called the “Royal Prerogative of Mercy” — but what about the tens of thousands of other gay men (and women) who were arrested and convicted of “gross indecency” (as gay sex was criminalised in those days)? Barnes, together with Nevile Hunt, Turing’s great nephew, and Thomas Barnes, his great-great nephew (pictured), delivered their petition to the Prime Minister’s office at No. 10 Downing Street. The law was taken off the books in 2003, and hadn’t been used for 36 years before that, but Turing’s great-niece, Rachel Barnes, and her extended family estimate that more than 49,000 other Brits suffered the same discrimination and prosecution as Turing did — and they’ve collected over 600,000 names on a petition to urge the government to pardon those victims as well. “Alan’s treatment by the government was absolutely horrific,” Barnes wrote in an article published yesterday on the Independent.co.uk website. “Having chosen the latter, both his mental and physical health deteriorated. He ended up with severe depression and was unable to continue his work. In the end, he committed suicide, at the age of 41. “But Alan’s legacy still hasn’t been properly fulfilled,” she continued. “He wasn’t the only gay man to receive such shocking treatment by the government. An estimated 49,000 other men were also charged with gross indecency, and have never been pardoned by the government. And 15,000 of these men are still alive. If the Government believes in justice, then they must receive the same pardon as Alan within their lifetimes. It would make such a huge difference to them and their families.” The organization YouGov polled Britains on the subject and found that two out of three voters favored pardoning those who had been convicted of “gross indecency.” However, 21 percent — mostly conservatives and UKIP voters — opposed the move.
Use these engaging real-world scenarios to help infuse your mathematics program with a problem-based approach to the knowledge and skills required by the Common Core State Standards for Mathematics. This collection of tasks addresses all of the Common Core State Standard categories for high school mathematics: - Number and Quantity - Statistics and Probability Each Problem-Based Task is set in a meaningful context to engage student interest and reinforce the relevance of mathematics. Each is tightly aligned to one or more specific standards from the High School CCSS for Math III.
Brain swelling (brain oedema, intracranial pressure) Brain swelling is also known as cerebral oedema. It can be caused by an accident or trauma or some medical conditions. This pressure can prevent blood from flowing to your brain, which deprives your brain of the oxygen it needs to function. Swelling can also block other fluids from leaving your brain, making the swelling even worse. Swelling in the brain can be life threatening. What causes brain swelling? Injury, infections, tumours, other health problems, and even high altitudes, any of these problems can cause brain swelling to occur. The following list explains different ways the brain can swell: - Traumatic brain injury (TBI): In TBI, also called a head injury, a sudden event damages the brain. Both the physical contact itself and the quick acceleration and deceleration of the head can cause the injury. The most common causes of TBI include falls, vehicle crashes, being hit with or crashing into an object, and assaults. The initial injury can cause brain tissue to swell. In addition, broken pieces of bone can rupture blood vessels in any part of the head. The body's response to the injury may also increase swelling. Too much swelling may prevent fluids from leaving the brain. - Ischaemic strokes: Ischaemic stroke is the most common type of stroke and is caused by a blood clot or blockage in or near the brain. The brain is unable to receive the blood and oxygen it needs to function. As a result, brain cells start to die. As the body responds, swelling occurs. - Brain (intracerebral) haemorrhages and strokes: Haemorrhage refers to blood leaking from a blood vessel. Haemorrhagic strokes are the most common type of brain haemorrhage. They occur when blood vessels anywhere in the brain rupture. As blood leaks and the body responds, pressure builds inside the brain. High blood pressure is thought to be the most frequent cause of this kind of stroke. Haemorrhages in the brain can also be due to head injury, certain medications, and unknown malformations present from birth. - Infections: Illness caused by an infectious organism such as a virus or bacterium can lead to brain swelling. Examples of these illnesses include: - Meningitis: This is an infection in which the covering of the brain becomes inflamed. It can be caused by bacteria, viruses, other organisms, and some medications. - Encephalitis: This is an infection in which the brain itself becomes inflamed. It is most often caused by a group of viruses and is often spread through insect bites. A similar condition is called encephalopathy, which can be due to Reye's syndrome, for example. - Toxoplasmosis: This infection is caused by a parasite. Toxoplasmosis most often affects foetuses, young infants and people with damaged immune systems. - Subdural empyema: Subdural empyema refers to an area of the brain becoming abscessed or filled with pus, usually after another illness such as meningitis or a sinus infection. The infection can spread quickly, causing swelling and blocking other fluid from leaving the brain. - Tumours: Growths in the brain can cause swelling in several ways. As a tumour develops, it can press against other areas of the brain. Tumours in some parts of the brain may block cerebrospinal fluid from flowing out of the brain. New blood vessels growing in and near the tumour can also lead to swelling. - High altitudes: Although researchers don't know the exact causes, brain swelling is more likely to occur at altitudes above 1,500 metres. This type of brain oedema is usually associated with severe acute mountain sickness (AMS) or high-altitude cerebral oedema (HACE).
- New research links older people’s use of hearing aids with lower risks of dementia, depression, anxiety, and dangerous falls - Hearing loss can lead to social isolation, which increases the likelihood of developing cognitive difficulties and mood disorders - There are hearing aids available that are almost invisible, and some devices are very reasonably priced How Hearing Aids Reduce Dementia and Anxiety As we grow older, we begin to experience subtle changes in our bodies. It’s not like one day we don’t need glasses to read the newspaper or a menu and the next we do. For most signs of aging, the changes are gradual. That’s why when it comes to a gradual decline in our hearing, it may be easier to deny to ourselves that it has taken place. But it is important to face reality in this case and do something about it because new research shows that using hearing aids can help us prevent other serious conditions that might arise in our senior years. The study, which took place at the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor, found that older people have a lower risk of developing dementia, depression, anxiety, and injuries from falls when they begin wearing a hearing aid.1Mahmoudi, Elham; et al. “Can Hearing Aids Delay Time to Diagnosis of Dementia, Depression, or Falls in Older Adults?” Journal of the American Geriatrics Society. 4 September 2019. Accessed 8 September 2019. https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1111/jgs.16109. These results are based on an investigation that analyzed data from a Medicare HMO for 114,862 people 66 and older from 2008 through 2016. This type of insurance differs from traditional Medicare plans in that it partially covers the cost of hearing aids. Each subject’s medical records were reviewed for one year before their hearing loss diagnosis and for three years afterward to ensure a focus on only new cases of dementia, depression, anxiety, and fall injuries and to exclude any pre-existing cases. In that three-year span after receiving their hearing loss diagnosis, the participants who had gotten hearing aids were shown to have an 18 percent lower risk of dementia, a 13 percent lower risk of injuries due to falls, and an 11 percent lower risk of depression or anxiety. Loss of Hearing Takes a Significant Toll Why would hearing loss potentially contribute to seemingly unrelated problems such as dementia, depression, and falls? In the case of dementia, many individuals who can’t hear properly often start becoming more withdrawn and isolated. As the brain receives less stimulation from social connectivity, nerve impulses slow down and memory declines. As for depression and anxiety, once again it seems that the issue largely stems from the withdrawal from social settings that many older people with hearing loss impose on themselves. The more time they spend alone, the greater their depression and/or anxiety grows. A 2014 study at the National Institutes of Health in Bethesda, Maryland found a link between hearing loss and higher rates of moderate to severe depression.2Li, Chuan-Ming; et al. “Hearing Impairment Associated With Depression in US Adults, National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey 2005-2010.” JAMA Otolaryngology-Head & Neck Surgery. April 2014. Accessed 9 September 2019. https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jamaotolaryngology/fullarticle/1835392. And the risk of falls, too, increases with hearing loss because of the inner ear’s essential role in maintaining balance. But the problem is worsened by the fact that only 12 percent or so of older people actually get hearing aids when they are diagnosed with hearing loss. Preventing and Managing Hearing Loss By the age of 65, approximately 33 percent of Americans experience some level of hearing loss. If your hearing is still fully intact—and you know this through an audiological evaluation—that’s great, but you need to do what you can to safeguard it. One of the major causes of hearing loss is exposure to loud noises and it can occur not only from expected sources like the high decibel levels at a concert, but also everyday situations like work (for example, in construction), listening to music too loudly through headphones, or even regularly walking around a city with heavy traffic. Buy yourself earplugs to prevent loud sounds all around you from doing damage to delicate nerve cells within the ears. If you have already begun to experience hearing loss, it is not enough to get a diagnosis. Consider getting fitted for a hearing aid. There are a wide range of models available and many are very discreet. If your insurance does not cover the cost and it is out of your price range, look into an over-the-counter sound amplification device. These, although not as discreet, can be very effective and help prevent the dementia, mood disorders, and falls all associated with hearing loss. References [ + ] |1.||↑||Mahmoudi, Elham; et al. “Can Hearing Aids Delay Time to Diagnosis of Dementia, Depression, or Falls in Older Adults?” Journal of the American Geriatrics Society. 4 September 2019. Accessed 8 September 2019. https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1111/jgs.16109.| |2.||↑||Li, Chuan-Ming; et al. “Hearing Impairment Associated With Depression in US Adults, National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey 2005-2010.” JAMA Otolaryngology-Head & Neck Surgery. April 2014. Accessed 9 September 2019. https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jamaotolaryngology/fullarticle/1835392.|
Consistent electricity is one of the major issues facing India; in 2005 GMR Energy started developing a 330 megawatt hydroelectric dam and power plant in Uttarakhand, just outside the town of Srinigar to help satisfy the growing demand for power. Over time, concrete that is not properly waterproofed can deteriorate and fail, which can result in devastating floods. The local town of Srinigar is all too familiar with the devastation of floods. In 1894, over 280 million cubic meters (10,000 million cubic feet) of water from the breached Gohna Lake completely swept away the original town of Srinigar. Due to the extreme risk potential in building and waterproofing the dam, the team at Alakanada brought Kryton on-board in 2010 to waterproof key areas of the dam. Kryton’s system can add decades to the life of concrete structures and unlike membrane systems that can deteriorate over time, the Kryton system becomes a part of the concrete matrix, waterproofing from the inside out. This gives the system added reliability over others. Kryton is working with the on-site ready-mix plant to optimize the mix design. In addition, Kryton is helping the on-site construction team to test and apply Kryton’s surface-applied waterproofing system, Krystol T1 & T2 Waterproofing System, and its internal system, Krystol Internal Membrane (KIM), to the dam face, canal and two tunnels. Krystol T1 & T2 Waterpoofing System were applied to the upstream section of the dam face, which measures 128 m by 340 m (420 ft by 1100 ft). Going forward, the 1.8 km (1.12 mile) long canal leading to the pen stocks will be waterproofed entirely using KIM. Krystol T1 & T2 Waterproofing System will be applied to the two spillway tunnels that are each one kilometer (0.62 miles) long. In all, approximately 1 million kilograms (1,000 tonnes) of Kryton’s waterproofing systems will be used to treat tens of thousands of square meters (hundreds of thousands of square feet) of concrete and protect the dam and India’s electricity demands for years to come.
Speed down a Hill Date: 4/17/96 at 10:43:27 From: Spring Lake Park H.S. Subject: physics How fast is an object going at the bottom of a 14.9m hill, if it starts at the top going 3.0 m/s? Date: 4/18/96 at 19:32:8 From: Doctor Ken Subject: Re: physics Hello! In order to do this problem, you have to assume a few things: - you have to assume that friction isn't going to be much of a factor - similarly, wind resistance isn't going to play a big part. Also, here's a tip: Since they didn't say how steep the hill was, it probably doesn't make any difference, right? So you might as well use the easiest hill you know of, namely the hill that goes straight down (no hill at all). Does that make the problem easier for you? Remember, the downward acceleration due to gravity of any object on the Earth's surface is about 9.8 meters per second. Write back if you still need more help on this. -Doctor Ken, The Math Forum Search the Dr. Math Library: Ask Dr. MathTM © 1994- The Math Forum at NCTM. All rights reserved.
Vanishing Third World Emigrants? NBER Working Paper No. 14785 This paper documents a stylized fact not well appreciated in the literature. The Third World has been undergoing an emigration life cycle since the 1960s, and, except for Africa, emigration rates have been level or even declining since a peak in the late 1980s and the early 1990s. The current economic crisis will serve only to accelerate those trends. The paper estimates the economic and demographic fundamentals driving these Third World emigration life cycles to the United States since 1970 -- the income gap between the US and the sending country, the education gap between the US and the sending country, the poverty trap, the size of the cohort at risk, and migrant stock dynamics. It then projects the life cycle up to 2024. The projections imply that pressure on Third World emigration over the next two decades will not increase. It also suggests that future US immigrants will be more African and less Hispanic than in the past. Document Object Identifier (DOI): 10.3386/w14785 Users who downloaded this paper also downloaded these:
What is your definition of health? To you is it just your personal health or does it go beyond what happens in your body? How important is health to you? We’re here to help you understand and grasp the definition of health in a way that sticks with you and promotes change! What does health actually mean- according to the World Health Organization health is “the state of complete physical, mental and social well-being and not merely the absence of disease or infirmity” (Businessdictionary.com). Why should all three of those worlds of health should be a priority is where we come in to stress the importance. Let’s face it, we all define health differently and our complete health falls on all different places of the spectrum of priorities. But, to make an impact on becoming healthier as a whole, there must be a general consensus on a basic understanding of health. Health is not limited to just our bodies, it is a multifaceted status and all have to be balanced to increase positive growth. Because health is a combination of multiple areas of health, to make a difference as a healthier community, it has to start individually! A healthier YOU gets the ball rolling on a healthier community. Dedication, commitment, and motivation: they all have to start somewhere so why not make it start with you? If you take on the challenge to invest on your own (complete) health, you will begin influencing your family, which is another level of important health status itself. Then, with your family on board, they will begin to influence those around them every day too. See a pattern here? If we’re all influencing each other to be healthier our largest world of health, in regards to scale, our community will be greater as well. Community health is the science of protecting and improving the health of communities through education, promotion of healthy lifestyles and research for disease and injury prevention. That is the boring text book definition right? At the end of the day it is simply saying community health is maintaining the good, overall health of the community in which you live in. To achieve a healthier community though, we have to start at the base… that’s you! You and your health are the key factors in building a healthier community. Within our coalition, Activate Buffalo County, we are trying to put that bug in everyone’s ear about being the healthiest version of you. If we can get you to put your whole world of health at the top of your priority list, others outside our coalition will soon follow! In the end, we will reach a healthier community together! Need help getting started? Stay tuned and keep your eyes peeled for helpful tips about maintaining a healthy lifestyle!
day. Here in Britain we don’t directly see these Atlantic crests and troughs – we are set back from the Atlantic proper, separated from it by a few hundred miles of paddling pool called the continental shelf. Each time one of the crests whooshes by in the Atlantic proper, it sends a crest up our paddling pool. Similarly each Atlantic trough sends a trough up the paddling pool. Consecutive crests and troughs are separated by six hours. Or to be more precise, by six and a quarter hours, since the time between moon-rises is about 25, not 24 hours. The speed at which the crests and troughs travel varies with the depth of the paddling pool. The shallower the paddling pool gets, the slower the crests and troughs travel and the larger they get. Out in the ocean, the tides are just a foot or two in height. Arriving in European estuaries, the tidal range is often as big as four metres. In the northern hemisphere, the Coriolis force (a force, associated with the rotation of the earth, that acts only on moving objects) makes all tidal crests and troughs tend to hug the right-hand bank as they go. For example, the tides in the English channel are bigger on the French side. Similarly, the crests and troughs entering the North Sea around the Orkneys hug the British side, travelling down to the Thames Estuary then turning left at the Netherlands to pay their respects to Denmark. Tidal energy is sometimes called lunar energy, since it’s mainly thanks to the moon that the water sloshes around so. Much of the tidal energy, however, is really coming from the rotational energy of the spinning earth. The earth is very gradually slowing down. So, how can we put tidal energy to use, and how much power could When you think of tidal power, you might think of an artificial pool next to the sea, with a water-wheel that is turned as the pool fills or empties (figures 14.2 and 14.3). Chapter G shows how to estimate the power avail- able from such tide-pools. Assuming a range of 4 m, a typical range in many European estuaries, the maximum power of an artificial tide-pool that’s filled rapidly at high tide and emptied rapidly at low tide, generating power from both flow directions, is about 3 W/m2. This is the same as the power per unit area of an offshore wind farm. And we already know how big offshore wind farms need to be to make a difference. They need to be country-sized. So similarly, to make tide-pools capable of producing power comparable to Britain’s total consumption, we’d need the total area of the tide-pools to be similar to the area of Britain. Amazingly, Britain is already supplied with a natural tide-pool of just the required dimensions. This tide-pool is known as the North Sea (figure 14.5). If we simply insert generators in appropriate spots, significant power can be extracted. The generators might look like underwater wind |2 m||1 W/m2| |4 m||3 W/m2| |6 m||7 W/m2| |8 m||13 W/m2|
A recent radio show broadcasted that research from the CDC stated that kids in America are eating too much pizza, which is not a healthy food. I was a bit puzzled, so I wanted to get a little more information on the actual research. The CDC report is actually on sodium intakes in children and adolescents in the US. Like adults, children and adolescents are consuming more sodium than they need. And even in children, this can lead to increased blood pressure. Why do we care? First, we don’t want to start kids off with health problems, like high blood pressure. This will only increase the likelihood of these problems as adults. Second, sodium intake is a taste preference. As children are developing their tastes and dietary preferences, we want to give them a healthy palate. Reducing intake when young will hopefully help prevent them from over consuming as adults. So where does pizza come in? Pizza is the number one contributor of sodium to children and adolescent diets. Bread, poultry, cold cuts, and sandwiches round out the top five. Noticably, these are foods that naturally have high sodium. This isn’t about teaching kids to not salt their food. It is about teaching them to watch their consumption of foods naturally high in sodium. So can your kid eat pizza? Of course! But, beware of the amount of cheese and cured meats on your toppings. Stick for less cheese, fresh cooked meats, veggies, and homemade sauce if possible. All of these allow you greater control of the sodium going in. Here are a couple of my favorites for pizza: What are your favorite adaptations to make pizza more healthy? Share them in the comments!
1031 The Church gives the name Purgatory to this final purification of the elect, which is entirely different from the punishment of the damned. The Church formulated her doctrine of faith on Purgatory especially at the Councils of Florence and Trent. The tradition of the Church, by reference to certain texts of Scripture, speaks of a cleansing fire: - As for certain lesser faults, we must believe that, before the Final Judgment, there is a purifying fire. He who is truth says that whoever utters blasphemy against the Holy Spirit will be pardoned neither in this age nor in the age to come. From this sentence we understand that certain offenses can be forgiven in this age, but certain others in the age to come.
The Longan is a tropical tree native to southern China.