Shipment & Transport-Sea, Air, Rail, Road, Pipeline The mode of trans
portation is an important consideration when planning 
the shipment process. Besides the
 costs, the urgency of the
 shipment, the value of the goods being shippe
d as well as the size and weight of the goods need to be eval
uated when determini
ng the form of transportation. Seaborn
e trade accounts for abou
t 90% of the global trade, and as per UNCTAD, 1687 million tons (2015 estim
ate) were carried in around 177.6 million containers (2015 estimate) covering 9
98 billion ton-miles (2016 estimate). Because of size or volume, there are several types of cargoes 
that cannot be or is economically unviable to move 
by other modes of transport than the sea. Ocea
n freight is a less expensive method of shipping goods, but the drawback is a longer tra
nsit time. Another bene
fit for ocean freight is while size and weigh
t may be an issue for air; it is not for ocean freight. Ocean freight is used quite extensively fo
r the movement of bulk 
commodities such as agri-products (wheat, maize, soya, etc.), coal
, iron ore or for wet bulk products suc
h as crude oil and petroleum. Also, larger, odd-
shaped items including engines and propellers may move vi
a this mode as well, depending on how sensitive the delivery time 
is. Ocean freight is also a preferred
 mode of transport for the movement of high volume and h
eavy cargo such as minerals, metals, ores, steel coils, etc. which would be impossible to mov
e by air freight. Additionally, businesses are placing more of an emphasis o
n the environmental impact on shipping. An air freight service emits a higher am
ount of polluting gases with less space capacity compared to sea freight services which
 are considered a much gr
eener transportation mode with a higher carrying capacity. Key benefits of ocean fr
eight include - Suitable for wide range of products with long lead times - Lar
ge volumes. A single, ultra-large container ship can carry +/-20,000 twenty-foot equivalent units (T
EU) - Most environmental friendly among all modes of transport - Liner shipping is the most effi
cient mode of transport for goods - Extensive co
verage around the world - Multiple carrier options for the
 shippers Over the next 15 years, 
as the world GDP grows, there will be a demand for higher value goods. As per Boeing’s 2016 – 2017
 world air cargo forecast, there will be a proportionate growth in the value 
per ton of total traded goods around the world. To meet t
he demand for growth, world air cargo traffic is forecasted to grow an averag
e 4.2 percent per year. Air freight is 
a critical mode of transport. It serves markets and supply chains that deman
d speed. One of greatest examples goes back to 1997 when Apple began innovating on the n
itty-gritty details of supply-chain management. Al
most immediately upon Steve Jobs’ return. At the time, most computer manufac
turers transported products by sea, a far cheaper opti
on than air freight. Steve Jobs took advantage of the benefit of air freight and used an innovat
ive strategy. He paid $50 million to buy up all the available holiday air freight space 
to ensure that the company’s new, translucent blue iMac
s would be widely available during Christmas season giving them a massive competitive advantage o
ver their rivals. – “It was an ‘Oh s—’ moment,” recalls former HP
 supply chain chief Mike Fawkes.” Other industries such as the automotive and retail industry al
so utilize air freight to achieve ‘just-in-time’ (JIT) inventory repleni
shment. JIT option allows stores, production lines to place order fulfi
llment based on demand as, and when required. It provides greater flexibi
lity and reduces inventory and storage costs. Also, perishable goods such as foods, flowers, and som
e pharmaceuticals also take advantage of shorter tr
ansit time. Another positive for air freight is that there’s less handling of cargo ov
erall, so the likelihood of damage or theft is less likely when 
utilizing air. But air freight also has its own d
isadvantages such as b
eing one of the most expensive due to the requirement of speed an
d the fuel that is used. It also has its size and weight limitations. Regulatory bodies li
mit what can and cannot be transported by air, and as such, oddly shaped or very 
large items may be more suitable for other modes of transport. Key 
benefits of air freight inc
lude - Quick transit - Less handling of cargo - Less documentation - Reliable a
rrival and departures - Enhanced level of security for your cargo Another mode of transport 
which is also considered a ‘green’ option is rail. Trains
 burn less fuel per ton-mile than road vehicles and a train, which can have
 as many than 100 wagons, only needs one driver. There are, however, some additional 
costs which are incurr
ed in a rail journey: at each end of the rail transit, a road delive
ry will be needed, and there will be a lift
 cost to transfer the container between the train and the road vehicle. On average, lo
nger journeys tend to be less expensive by rail, and shorter journeys are less costly b
y road. Where the point of cost neutrality comes is governed by many factors which are route and c
ommodity specific, but i
n general, the point of cost neutrality ca
n be expected to lie in the range of 130 to 150 miles. In
 2015, the first freight
 train carrying ISO freight containers from Chin
a arrived in the Port of Rotterdam in 18 days as against the normal 
44 odd days by the sea. This movement of containerized cargo by rail fro
m China to logistics 
hubs in Europe such as in the Netherlands, UK is seen as a significant step in the 
development of trade between the
 two continents. It has encouraged multinationals such as Hewlett-Packard 
and Ricoh to use the route from Europe to China for their cargoes. The
 Manager of European Transport 
at Ricoh notes that if one can
 set up an effective planning, rail is 
a relatively quick mode of transport
 taking only 20 days to China. In
 addition, the move by rail also has some advantages such as all containers being transported
 to the location in one go, while being environm
entally friendly as a train releases far less CO2 tha
n a plane. Key benefits of rail freight include - Reliable t
ransit times and schedules - Railroads are the most efficient form of
 land transportation. One train can haul the
 equivalent of over 400 trucks - Fast and cost-effective deliveries over long distan
ces. Typically over 500 miles - Traditionally, rail has a str
ong safety record. - Helps in all
eviating road congestion, thus lowering emissions Road freight is o
ne of the most common of all modes of transportation. It i
s widely used in continents such as Europe, Africa, and North America. The single customs documen
t process provides a seamless movement of goods e
ven across various states and countries. Road freight provides severa
l advantages over other modes of transportation such as - Quick an
d scheduled delivery - Local, over border, long or short haul deliverie
s even in rural areas - Flexible service - 
Saving in Packing Cost compared to other modes - Track and trace of cargo and truck - Complete door-
to-door service and it is one of the
 more economical means of transport.
 However, truck transport is limited somewhat as to what it can carry by
 the size of the vehicles used and by size and w
eight restrictions. Another limitation is that it is affected by weather, road
 conditions and traffic. Pipeline transport is the long-distance transporta
tion of a liquid or gas through a system of pipes—a pi
peline—typically to a market area for consumption. The latest data from 2014 gives a total o
f slightly less than 2,175,000 miles (3,500,000 km) of pipeline in 120 countries of the w
orld. The United States had 
65%, Russia had 8%, and Canada had 3%, thus 75% of all pipeline were in these 
three countries. Pipeline and Gas Journal’s worldwide survey figures indicate that 118,623 miles (
190,905 km) of pipelines are planned and under construction. Of these, 88,976 miles (143,
193 km) represent projects in the planning and design pha
se; 29,647 miles (47,712 km) reflect pipelines in various stages 
of construction. Liquids an
d gases are transported in pipelines and any chemically stable substance can be sent through a p
ipeline. Pipelines exist for the transport of crude and refined pe
troleum, fuels – such as oil, natural gas and biofuels – and other fluids in
cluding sewage, slurry, water, beer, hot water or st
eam for shorter distances. Pipelines are useful for transportin
g water for drinking or irrigation over long distances when it needs to move over hills,
 or where canals or channels are poor choices due to considerations 
of evaporation, pollution, or environmen
tal impact.
12. Definition — In this Part, unless the context otherwise requires, “the Stat
e” includes the Government and Parliament of India and the Gover
nment and the Legislature of each of the
 States and all local or other authorities within the territor
y of India or under the control of the Go
vernment of India…. Right to Equality 14. Equality befor
e law — The State shall not deny to any person e
quality before the law or the equal protection of the laws within the territory of
 India. 15. Prohibition of discrimination on grounds of religion, race, caste, sex or pla
ce of birth — (1) The State shall not discriminate against any citizen on groun
ds only of religion, race, caste, sex, p
lace of birth or any of them. (2) No citizen shall, on grounds only of religi
on, race, caste, sex, place of birth or any of the
m, be subject to any disability, liability, restriction or condition with regard to
 — (a) access to shops, public restaurants, hotels and pla
ces of public entertainment; or (b) the use of wells, tanks, bathing ghats, roads and places 
of public resort maintained wholly or partly o
ut of State funds or dedicated to the use of the general public. (3) Nothin
g in this article shall prevent t
he State from making any special provis
ion for women and children. (4) Nothing in this article or in clause (2) of A
rticle 29 shall prevent the State from making any special provision for th
e advancement of any socially and educationally backward clas
ses of citizens or for the Sched
uled Castes and the Scheduled T
ribes. 16. Equality of opportunity in matters of public employment — (1) There shall be eq
uality of opportunity for all citizens in matters relating to employme
nt or appointment to any office under the State. (2) No citi
zen shall, on grounds only of religion, race, caste, sex, descent, place o
f birth, residence or any
 of them, be ineligi
ble for, or discriminat
ed against in respect or, any employment or office under 
the State…. 17. Abolition of Untouchability — “Untouchability” is abolished and its practice in an
y form is forbidden. The enforcement of any disability arising out of “Unt
ouchability” shall be an offence punishable in
 accordance with law. 18. Abolition of titles — (1) No title, not be
ing a military or academic distinction, shall be conferred by the State…. Right to Freedom 
19. Protection of certain rights regarding freedom of speech, etc. — (1) All citizens 
shall have the right — (a) to 
freedom of speech and expression; (b) to assembl
e peaceably and without arms; (c) to form associations or unions; (d) to move f
reely throughout the territory of I
ndia; (e) to reside and settle in any part of the territo
ry of India; and (f) [removed]; (g) to practice
 any profession, or to 
carry on any occupation, trade or business. …Nothing in sub-clause (
a)… (b)… (c)… (d)… (e)… (g)… of Clause (1) shall affect the
 operation of any existing law, or prevent the State from making any 
law, in so far as such law imposes reasonable restrictions on the exercise of t
he right conferred by the said sub-clause in the interests of t
he sovereignty and integrity of India…. 20. Protection in respect of conviction for offenses — (1
) No person shall be convicted of any offence ex
cept for violation of a law in fo
rce at the time of the commission of the act charged as an offence, nor be subjected to a penal
ty greater than that which might have been inflicted under the law in force at the time of the co
mmission of the offence. (2) No person shall be prosecuted and punished for
 the same offence more than once. (3) No person accused of
 any offence shall be compelled
 to be a witness against himself. 21. Protection of life and 
personal liberty — No person shall be deprived of his li
fe or personal liberty except accordi
ng to procedure established by law. 22. Protection against arr
est and detention in certain
 cases — (1) No person who
 is arrested shall be detained 
in custody without being in
formed, as soon as may be, of the grounds for such arrest nor shall he be de
nied the right to consult, and to be defended by, a legal p
ractitioner of his choice. (2) Every person who is a
rrested and detained in custody shall be produced before the nearest magistrate within a period o
f twenty-four hours of such arrest excluding the time necessary for t
he journey from the place of arrest to the cour
t of the magistrate and no such person 
shall be detained in custody beyond the said period without the au
thority of a magistrate.
 (3) Nothing in clauses (1) and (2) shall apply — (a) to any 
person who for the time being is an enemy alien; or (b) to any per
son who is arrested or detained under any law providing for preventive detention. (4) No law pro
viding for preventive detention 
shall authorize the detenti
on of a person for a longer period than three months unless — (a) an Advisory Board 
consisting of persons who are, or have been, or a
re qualified to be appointed as, Judges
 of a High Court has re
ported before the expiration of the said period of three months that there
 is in its opinion sufficient cause for such detention;… (5) When any person is d
etained in pursuance of an order made under any law providing for
 preventive detention, the authority making the order shall, a
s soon as may be, communicate to such person the grounds on which the order has been made and
 shall afford him the earliest op
portunity of making a representation against the order. (6) Nothing in clause (5) shall
 require the authority making any such order as is referred to in t
hat clause to disclose
 facts which such authorit
y considers to be against t
he public interest to disclose…. Right Against
 Exploitation 23. Prohibition of traffic in human beings and forced labor — (1) Traffic in
 human beings and begar and 
other similar forms of forced labor are proh
ibited and any contravention of this provision shall be an offence punishable in accordance
 with law. (2) Nothing in this article shall preven
t the State from imposing compulsory service for public purposes…
. 24. Prohibition of employment of children in factories, etc. — No child
 below the age of fourteen years shall be employed to work in any factory
 or mine or engaged in a
ny other hazardous employment. Right to Freedom of Religion 25. Freedom 
of conscience and free profe
ssion, practice and p
ropagation of religion —(1) Subject to public order, morality and
 health and to the other provisions of this Part, all persons are equ
ally entitled to freedom of conscience 
and the right freely to profess, practice and propagate
 religion. (2) Nothing in 
this article shall affect the operation of any existing
 law or prevent the State from making any law — (a) regulating or restricting any economic, 
financial, political or other secular activity which may be associated with religious practice; (b) 
providing for social welfare an
d reform or the throwing open of Hindu religious institutions of 
a public character to all classes and sections of Hi
ndus…. Cultural and Educational Rights 29. Protection of interests 
of minorities — (1) Any section of the citizens residing in the territo
ry of India or any part thereof having a distinct language, script or culture of its own shal
l have the right to conserve the same. (2) No citizen shall be denied admission in
to any educational institution maintained by the State or receiving aid out of State f
unds on grounds only of religion, race, caste, 
language or any of them…. 34. Restriction on rights conferred by this Part while martial law is in
 force in any area – ..Parliament may by law indemnify any person in the service of the Union or of 
a State or any other person in respect of any act done by him in con
nection with the maintenance or restoration of order in any area within the territory of India w
here martial law was in force or validate 
any sentence passed, punishment inflicted, forfeiture ordered or other act done under marti
al law in such area…. 51-A. Fundamental dutie
s — It shall be the duty of every citizen of India — (a) to abide by th
e Constitution and respect its ideals and insti
tutions, the National Flag and the National Anthem; (b) to cherish and follow the noble ideal
s which inspired our national struggle for freedom; (c) to uphold and protect the sov
ereignty, unity and integrity of India; (d) to defend the country and render national service when 
called upon to do so; (e) to promote harmony and the spirit o
f common brotherhood amongst all the people of India transcending religious, linguistic and re
gional or sectional diversities; to renounce practice derogatory to the 
dignity of women; (f) to value and preserve the rich heritage of our
 composite culture; (g) to prote
ct and improve the natural environmen
t including forests, lakes, rivers and wild life, and to have c
ompassion for living cre
atures; (h) to develop the scientific temper, humanism and the spirit of inquiry and r
eform; (i) to safeguard pub
lic property and to abjure violence; (j) to strive towards excellence in all s
pheres of individual a
nd collective activity so that the nation constant
ly rises to higher levels of endeavour and achievement.
Gúthwinë was the sword 
that belonged to Éomer. It was borne by him at the Battle of the Hornburg, and p
resumably at the Battle of the Pelennor Fields and the battle before Morannon. In Old English, 
Gúthwinë means "Battle-friend". Portrayal in adaptationsEd
it The Lord of the Ring
s film trilogyEdit In The
 Two Towers, Gúthwinë is shown as ha
ving a fullered blade and both the gu
ard and the pommel were of bro
nze. The guard was shape
d like horses' heads, 
one on each side of the blade. 
The sword slew many orcs in its time, especially Uruks of Isengard, and e
arned a large reputation as the sword of Rohan. - ↑ The Lord of the Rings, The Two Towers, Book Th
ree, Chapter VII: "Helm's Deep" - ↑ Parma Eldalamberon, Words, Phrase
s and Passages in Various Tongues in The Lord of
 the Rings by J.R.R. Tolkien
The robot in the picture above is calle
d YOLO, which stands for “your own liv
ing object.” It’s pretty weird looking—not like something you o
r I would design if someone were to tell us to design a social robot, right? And that’s becau
se YOLO is a robot that was 
designed by, and for, children. Not adults making the kind of
 robot that they think kids will want, min
d you, but actual children doing the designing from
 scratch. Getting children to design a robot was not easy. It took years 
to take YOLO from concept to physical reality, incorporating considerations f
or simplicity, cost, and a level of durability that’s compatible with op
en-ended play. The end result was something co
mpletely different, and also something that 
was very effective at helping kids tell better 
stories. Human-centered design of robots can be very challenging, because once you’ve gotte
n a robot to a point where you’re ready for user testing, the
 kinds of major changes that you can
 easily implement are typically pretty minor. On
 the other hand, if you try and get user input earlier, you’re generally restricted to things li
ke interviews or questionnaires or asking people to look at images or animations, and none 
of that stuff is very reliable at providing 
useful feedback in the same way that interaction with a physical robot wo
uld be. When you start talking about children, things get even more difficult, because even those 
questionnaires don’t work nearly as w
ell as they would with an adult. This is a big problem beca
use social robots are potentially (I would argue) very valuable for chil
dren as tools for education and social development. We’re not there with s
ocial robots yet, of course, but understanding how to design robots for kids is, if not ste
p one, still one of the
 things that we need to figure out early. What’s so cool about YOLO is h
ow unapologetically child-centric the entire process is; there does
n’t seem to be even a little bit of adult going on in that robot. But it took input from 
142 children to get to this point. For the humans working
 on this, YOLO has been quit
e a journey. For more details on YOLO and the thoug
ht and process behind t
he design, we spoke with YOLO’s creator, Patrícia Alves
-Oliveira. IEEE Spectrum: What are your general impr
essions of the current generation of social robots for children? Patrícia Alves-Oliveira: Social rob
ots seem to be the new gen
eration of toys for childr
en. Toys, in general, are the most important tool in a child’s life beca
use while manipulating them, children learn to explore the world. Toy
s are the very first tool children
 use to express their own emotions and thoughts. The wa
y we use tools, and toys in the case of children,
 can deeply influence and transform how we learn and experience the
 world. If we think of social 
robots for children as t
he new generation of tools, i
t feels that children can have access to a rich
er playset which enables them to be stimulated in new
 ways that traditional toys cannot elici
t. Consequently, they can experience the world in richer ways. What kind o
f toys are social robots? Social
 robots can include robots for play and robots for learning. Robots
 for play usually take the form of an animal or a doll, and often include human-like features,
 such as eyes and a mouth. When children use robots for play, they are not o
nly being entertained, but also 
stimulated. For example, they learn about problem solving, conflict r
esolution, and social-emotional s
kills while paying. This is possible because the robot can play back to them, resulting in bi-
directional play, or socia
l play. The play does not only depend on the child’s imagination, but also on
 the relationship that they can build with this artificial emb
odied system. By contrast, robots for learning are deliberately designed to teach children so
mething specific. They’re a
 tangible way of learning about abstract concepts that otherwise 
would be hard to digest. For example, children can use robots to learn about geometry
—perhaps they need to program a robot to make a right ang
le, so they learn that 90º mea
ns a right angle, and that if the robot continues making right turns, it can act
ually make the shape of a rectangle. These types of robots are 
generally less animal-like or human-like, and instead have a more practical shape, such as a cu
be on wheels. Can you describe what ma
kes YOLO different? YOLO i
s a robot whose purpose is to stimula
te creativity in children during play. To do this,
 YOLO uses two techniques called “mirroring” and “contrasting.” These two techniques
 derive from creativity research and serve to develop convergent and divergent t
hinking, which are two 
different types of creative thought that we all have. When Y
OLO uses mirroring, it mean
s the robot mimics the same play patterns that children perform while manipulating the r
obot. So, if children move the robot to the right, YOLO memorizes this movement, a
nd then mimics it. If we imagine what this means within a storytelling context, we c
an imagine a child moving the robot to the right because “the robot is going to school.” As 
the robot mimics this movement, the child understands that as a “yes, YOLO is 
continuing going to school.” The mirroring technique stimulates convergent thinking, related to 
the elaboration and exploration 
of details about one single idea. When YOLO uses contrasting, it means the robot is c
ontrasting the child’s play pattern. Taking the same school example, 
if a child moves the robot to the right to signal it’s going to school, the r
obot will then contrast that movement by moving to the 
left. In the context of storytelling, the child migh
t think “oh, there is something the robot is afraid of in
 school!” This will shi
ft the story, and children are likely to make a shift in thei
r story narratives. The contrast technique stimulates divergent thinking, as childre
n need to incorporate the novel behavior of the robo
t in their story in such a way that the story continues to make sense. 
Note: the following video is an example of an
 original story created 
by a Portuguese child playing with YOLO. To protect the privacy of the child, the 
story was animated by an artist. Why is this approach with YOLO valuable? 
The value of YOLO lies in its interacti
on with children. The main idea is that through the interaction between chi
ldren and YOLO, chil
dren’s creative abilities can be stimulated. Wh
ile this robot uses creativity stimulation techniques, it’s also simple enough for children to
 play with it as a normal toy. YOLO 
incorporates both the benefits of social robotics combined with already known benefit
s of traditional toys. Overall, when cre
ating stories with YOLO, children have more or
iginal ideas. The reason why we were able to create such a robot is because children were 
involved in the entire design of t
he robot from the beginning. My major design principle
 for YOLO was that it can fit a child’s world. The way I accomplished this was to test and t
est and test YOLO with children until the robot was as natural to use as a toy. If you had bee
n asked to design a robot to perfo
rm YOLO’s function without the input of children, how do you think the robot 
would be different? I believe YOLO would be very different. But 
I also believe that YOLO would be very diffe
rent if another sample of children was brought in during the 
design process. My key insight has been that even if the way the robot looks chan
ges, the essence of YOLO’s interactions wit
h children would remain stable. This is because we can keep the key aspects of YOLO’s operation
 constant, including creativity provocation, open-ended play, ease of us
e, and abstract non-anthropomorphic design. This means 
that YOLO can have a different shape and express itself using different physical behavio
rs, while still using the same creativity techniques. Why is avoiding anthropomorphism
 important? The main reason is that it’s much harder to fulfill 
expectations if we design a robo
t that looks like a human, because people will expect the robot to behave as a human, which i
s never the case due to technological shortcomings. Staying away from designing human-like robo
ts also ended up being a gift in disguise as this opens new spaces whe
n thinking of robots: if not like us, how should a r
obot look? I think this question is beautiful, and can open doors for many creative and innovative 
applications of robots. When you design with ch
ildren, how do you separate physical robot design, and robot purpose and func
tionality? The design of YOLO beg
an with the basic idea of moving a cube a
round. Many children’s toys have geometric shapes, so 
I started by building paper cubes using origami techniques. The paper cubes I built were
 of different sizes, and I asked children to create a story using the cubes as their characte
rs. I then just observed how children as they played with the cubes, and based on their 
play, I made design decisions about YOLO. For example, I sta
rted noticing that while
 grabbing the paper cubes, children would grasp the edges of the cube, making the edges
 round with use. I realized that these edges were not ideal for grasping and so I gave th
e children a new design with r
ounded edges. This is when the shape of the robot started being designed. To desi
gn YOLO’s behaviors, I listened to how children told stories while using the paper cubes.
 They generally attributed specific
 personality traits to their paper cube characters. One characte
r was grumpy, another was shy, and so on. This led me to think that YOLO shou
ld also exhibit personality as a way to engage children in their storytell
ing, and I started read
ing about personality research, sp
ecifically looking at non-verbal behaviors associated with persona
lity expression. The next step was to translate the personality requirements onto the shape of the r
obot. For a grumpy personality, YOLO would move fast and with high a
mplitude movements. For a shy robot, Y
OLO would move slowly and wi
th low amplitude movements, almost saying “don’t look at me, I am not here!” A ser
ies of images showing different iterations of the YOLO 
robot, from sketches, to 
paper models, to designs of different sizes and shapes.Patrícia Alves-Oliveira How much iteratio
n did it take to arrive at YOLO’s final design? I refined the robot a lot
, changed the shape, the size, and the multimodal expression. I always included children to te
st every change, and
 I drew from their behavior as inspiration for the next design i
teration. To give an example, at some point YOLO was making abstract so
unds as an expressive modality. When children interacted wi
th this prototype version, they completely igno
red the sounds and talked on t
op of the robot, sometimes yelling ove
r it. This indicated
 hat the sounds of the robot were obstructing
 their own expression in the story
, so sounds were removed, and YOLO is now a silent r
obot. Another example was the inclusion of touch as a socia
l feature. When I was testing the first actuated prototype, YOLO would start mo
ving while children were holding it, and the movements of the robot scared c
hildren. I remember one child actually said, “the robot does not li
ke me, it wants to go away.” 
After this testing session, I incorpo
rated a touch sensor in YOLO, so when 
it recognizes touch, YOLO does not move because a child is holding and playing with it.
 YOLO starts moving only w
hen the touch sensor does
 not recognize touch anymore, to ensure that the play of children is not interru
pted. This made a huge difference in the flow of the intera
ction. Close up images of the YOLO robot showing w
heels, a touch sensor, and
 a forest of small plastic whiskers with LEDs under them growing 
out of the robot’s headPatrícia Alves-Olivei
ra How do you incorporate multiple children (who may feel and want different things) into the
 design process for a single robot? I’ve included children from 7-9 years old i
n the design of YOLO. Within this specific age group, children are in the same developmenta
l stage where they attach abstract concepts to concrete situations and use objects
 locally present as a tool to learn an
d understand the world
. Although there are differences related to 
a child’s personality and preferences, the way children use, manipulate, and understand objects is
 quite similar at this age. This was true also in the context of the robot’s design. Knowing the de
velopmental stage of children helped me choose the activities and ma
terials to use during the de
sign sessions to best define the design requirements for the robot. While designing
 YOLO, I faced a question that I think many designers face: W
hen is the robot design finished? It is 
easy to fall into feature 
creep and keep adding and adding and adding features. To avoid this, I focused on des
ign principles rather than designing features. The distinction between a principle and a featur
e is that when you design for a feature, you add or remove the exact option the u
ser is asking for. This can 
make the design short-sighted. Take the example of a ch
ild getting scared if YOLO started moving while they were holding it. Designi
ng for features would mean removing the ability of the robot to move. Howev
er, if we design for principles,
 we require a deeper understanding of the interaction between the child and the
 robot. Once we have this, it’s clear that the main problem here was not the robot moving, but t
he timing of the robot
 staying still. So the child does not necessarily want a stationary robot; but rather a 
robot they can have some contro
l over, and instead of removing the navigation p
ossibility, we added a touch sensor tha
t would stop the robot from moving while being held. Do you think this long process was worthwh
ile? Building YOLO, the wa
y I did, was a 4-year journey that enabled me t
o explore many aspects about how robots can be u
sed to nurture intrins
ic human abilities, such as creativity. Wh
ile I was designing and building YOLO, I faced many questions, such as what does i
t mean to build a robot for creativity? What m
ethods do I need to develop to successfully include children in the design of
 the robot? How can I measure the success of using YOLO for creativ
ity stimulation? Being able to answer all o
f these questions was a valuable part of design
ing and fabricating YOLO, and I feel that as we answer these questions with a robot like YOL
O, we are also contributing to many other fields, such as psychology, design, a
nd engineering more broadly. A paper detailing the design of YOLO received the best 
paper award in the design track of the HRI 2021 conference, and 
you can see Patrícia Alves-Oliveira give a talk about her research 
here. Source: IEEE Spectrum
Metal additive manufacturing (AM) is growing at a fast-paced spurring the wo
rld’s current economy. According to the Wohler’s Report metal AM grew nearly 76% fro
m 2012 to 2013. Much of this
 growth is due to the advancement of metal AM from 
prototyping applications to part p
roduction in aerospace, energy and med
ical industries. Powder bed fusion is the current mar
ket leader in metal additive manufacturing. In this AM technique a high power c
ontinuous fiber laser is used to melt layers of powdered metal by scanning the 
laser over a powder bed, melting the powde
r and bonding it to a 2D substrate. The use of a continuous fiber lase
r makes the instrumentation expensive and the scanning requirement, and associated cont
rols of laser spot size, power and velocity, makes the build process very time consuming. Continued 
growth will require penetration of new ma
rkets with new metal AM techniques that address cost and speed of production. LLNL sc
ientists have developed a new metal additive manufacturing technique that uses
 diode lasers in conjunction with a programmable mask to generate 2D patterns of energy at the 
powder surface. The method can produce entire layers in a singl
e laser shot, rather than producing layers spot by spot as is currently done in pow
der bed fusion methods. Cost reduction is achieved. Diode lasers cost 
typically 20 times less than currently used fiber lasers (on a $/W bas
is). Scalability is enhanced. Entire layers are 
produced at one time by using diodes and patt
erned masks. Accelerate t
he production rate of additive manufacturing, especially those of
 metal systems where the ener
gy input required is highest. Proof of concept h
as been achieved at a laboratory scale. Patent protection for a portfolio of intellectual
 property is being pursued. Published paten
t application 2014/0252687
The region Bergisches Land is located in so
uthern part of North-Rhine-Westfalia in 
Germany. Geologically it belongs to the Rhenish Slate Mountains. Its western
 border is the river Rhine and on the east side it merges in
to the so called Sauerland, one of 
the Central German Uplands. 
The major part of the area is characterized by a low mountain landscape ri
ch in variety with forests, meadows, hills and V-shaped river
 valleys. Many of the 
rivers are dammed up to artificial lakes, which serve eithe
r as reservoirs for drinking water or industrial water, or as recreational areas. There
 are more than 20 artificial lakes in this small region, which is unique in t
he world. Some of the recreational lakes serve as popular di
ve sites, but conditions vary widely
 throughout the year. As the lakes are fed and dra
ined by rivers, which carry or swirl up sediments, cond
itions seem to depend on weather conditions, 
flow rates and the water level among other factors. All thes
e may as well influence the overall water quality and
 biodiversity. In order to monitor these factors our 
volunteer team will regularly collect corresponding data. As a firs
t step we will focus on water temperature, visibility, w
ater level and easily accessible chemical data
 as pH-value and nitrate. Furthermore,
 according to our suggestion that weathe
r conditions may have an influence on current water 
status, we will list meteorological data as the average air temperature, total 
precipitation and sunshine hours on 
a monthly base. We plan to measu
re more demanding parameters as saprobic index and algae growth in the future as resources hop
efully grow. Basically the Project is not limited to a defined number of sites, but as r
esources are limited we will start wi
th one site, which is the so called Wuppertalsperre. HOW TO SUBMIT DATA There are two ways 
to submit data to the Project Baseline database. You can submit data for exis
ting projects, and you 
can submit data for proje
cts that are not currently hosted (ad-hoc) in the database.
The investigation of past cultures of the modern nationstate of France through th
e study and scientific analysis of m
aterial remains (i.e., osteological, artifactual, 
architectural, etc.). Related categories 1 Archaeologica
l Guides of France: Great Archeological Sites Monographs published by the French Ministry
 of Culture on prehistoric
 or ancient sites or to
wns, or describing the ruins of a
 region. Abstracts online
. Britain and France in Dispute Over Cave Art From the Telegraph, British clai
m the French may have exaggerated their age by 18,000 years under official pressure to promote
 them as the oldest cave paintings in the world. The Cave of Lascaux The
 French Ministry of Culture provi
des a virtual tour of this famous P
aleolithic cave with text links on its histor
y and artwork. Cave Reveals Spectacular Secrets Fro
m the BBC, French archaeologists find a cave in the Do
rdogne covered with drawings which they think are almost 30,000 years old. An illustrat
ed art-historical analysis of coins o
f the Coriosolites of Brittany by John Hooker, 
based on the La Marquanderie hoard from Je
rsey. Maps of hoard discoveries and mint zones. History of its discovery, and pictures of the f
inds, and the scientific research The French Ministry of Culture describes a Pale
olithic art gallery in a cave that can be access
ed only through a 175-meter tunnel beneath sea level. Photogr
aphs of the animal drawings and hand stencils that decorate it. Excavations at Colletière The 
French Ministry of Culture describes the 'farmer-knights' who settled 
c.1010 CE on the wooded shores of Paladru lake and the techniques that have u
ncovered the evidence for them. France Cave Paintings & Rock Art Archive
 Provides photographs and information on the cave paintings of southern
 France. Lascaux Cave Paintings and Location Photographs and informat
ion on what may be the most beautiful Paleolith
ic painted cave in the world. Saint-Denis: 
A Town of the Middle Ages Maps and 3D images, objects, a slide show, games, animation
s and educational materials reveal the city's portrait and its shape as it chan
ged over time. Includes details of the town's archaeological unit and its wo
rk. Dietler Discovers Statue in France that R
eflects an Etruscan Influence From
 the Chronicle, life-sized statue of a warrior discovered in southern France reflects a stronger c
ultural influence for the Etruscan civilization throughout the western Mediterranean regi
on than previously appreciated. (February 19, 2004) Archaeologists Trace early Britons
 in Brittany The Oxford University Gazette reports that excavatio
ns at Le Yaudet under Profs. Barry Cunliffe and Patrick Galliou 
suggest that Britons fled there f
rom the West Country. (December 11, 1997) Other language
s 2 Last update:January 3, 2015 at 13:35:10 UTC
Agreement On Food Safety International trade rules continue to change as they a
dapt to the global economy. Rights and obligations un
der international trade agreements have challenged the balance of food 
security, food regulation and trade flows. Article 20 of the General Agreement on Tariffs and
 Trade (GATT) allows governme
nts to act in trade to protect the life or health of humans, anim
als or plants, unless they discriminate or use it as protectionism in disguise. In addition, two spe
cific WTO agreements deal with food safety and animal and plant health and safety
, as well as product standards in general. Both are trying to figure out how to res
pond to the need to app
ly standards while avoiding disguised protectionism. 
These issues are increasingly important due to falling customs barriers, wi
th some comparing them to the s
ea rocks that occur at low tide. In both cases, it is less likely that a country, wh
en applying international standards, will be legally challenged in the WTO than if it set
s its own standards. The agreement still allows countries to apply different standards and d
ifferent methods of product inspection. So how can an exporti
ng country be sure that the practic
es it applies to its products are acceptable i
n an importing country? If an exporting country can demonstrate that the measu
res it applies to its exports achieve the same level of
 human health protection as in the importing c
ountry, the importing country is e
xpected to accept the standards and methods of the exporting country. The Agreement contains provis
ions on control, inspection and authorisation pr
ocedures. Governments should inform new or amended sanitary and phytosanitary legislation in adv
ance and establish a national informa
tion body providing information. The agree
ment complements the agreement on technic
al barriers to trade. The evaluation of 
the implementation of the HACCP system 
in contract catering companies and the evaluation of the knowledge, attitudes and practices of gro
cers were the main objectives of this study. It was carried out
 in 20 companies throughout Spain, with
 a visual inspection of the establishments and activities of grocers, as well a
s the distribution of a self-managing questionnaire among the
 105 participating c
atering workers. In addition, samples of finished surfaces and tableware were taken from each ki
tchen for microbiological evaluation. The results of the questionnaires reflect a broad knowledge
 and correct behaviour of respondents 
with an average or higher level 
of education, stability i
n the same workplace and more responsible positions. However, the observation 
of hygiene practices revealed systema
tic errors in 60% of the kitchens.
 Most of the variations observed were rela
ted to lack of HACCP training and information, temper
ature of finished dishes, storage areas, and proper cleaning an
d disinfection. In summary, this study conf
irms the inherent difficulties of the restoration company in the 
effective implementation of the HACCP 
system, such as. B the lack of well-trained st
aff, the lack of motiva
tion or responsibility of workers in this system and the lack of financial and econo
mic resources to remedy the shortcomi
ngs of the establishments. Specific education 
programmes and grants are needed for proper implementation of HACCP in this sector. The 
agreement also contains a code of conduct for governments a
nd non-governmental or indus
trial organizations for the preparation, adoption and implementation of voluntary standa
rds. More than 200 standards bodies apply the code. Strengthening intra-Afr
ican agricultural trade is an opportunity to both boost economic growth and improve acces
s to safe and nutritious food across borders. . . .
Many good novels in the past have had films produced about their sto
ryline. However, producers often modif
y the plot, change the characters and introduce new events and ideas
 to try and make the film more appealing to viewers. As a result the nov
el Goodnight Mr Tom by Michelle Mag
orian has been reproduced in the 1998 classic called Good Night Mr Tom starring
 John Thaw and Nick Robinson. This essay will explore the differences between the boo
k and the film as well as focussing on whether the film has captured the characters of To
m and Will representing them as th
e novel intended. If 
you need assistance with writing your essay, our professional essay writing service is here to help
!Essay Writing Service The novel Goodnight Mr Tom by Michelle Magorian is set in Little We
irworld a small town near London, England. The novel wa
s set during World War Two while The Blitz was occurring
. This was where the Germans
 were bombing London, and everyo
ne was instructed to erect black out curtains. Both the novel and film portrays the st
ory of a young boy called William Beec
h who is sent to live with an old man called Tom Oakley. In the novel William is depict
ed as a shy, troubled, young boy, arou
nd the age of 9, who is beaten by his abusive, single mother. His mother believes h
e is a selfish boy. William does not talk 
much and has been taught to never ask questions. He is “as
signed” to old Mr Tom Oakley, a tough widower who lost his young wife and small
 son many years ago. William finds it difficul
t at first to communicate and live in the village with
 many strangers. “No one had ever sa
id they liked him. He had always excepted n
o one did.”(Chap 6) He vomits fr
om excitement and wets
 the bed nightly, often fearful he would be in trouble. Mr T
om struggles to reach out to poor Willie,
 realising he has never b
een taught to read and write. Tom soon discovered that William is a very talented artist who 
loves to draw. As William feels more comfortable he meet
s a friend at the post office named Zacharias Wrench, eventually with other friends they for
m a group where they come together and writ
e a newspaper. Gradually Mr. Tom’s kindness and encouragement ri
ses above Willie’s fears, and he becomes a happy, normal boy who loves his car
er and friend dearly. In the film the character of Will
iam is very similar to the novels portrayal, although he doesn’t seem as weak or frightened. Both th
e film and the novel allow the readers or viewers to witness the immense
 changes in William in the way he acts compared to the beginning of the film or novel. Novels are a
ble to explain what goes on in a character’s mind, but films often only
 show what can be seen and heard
, thus we learn about W
illiam from the novel tha
n the film. However even though the film did not describe William as much, it
 gives a fair representation of the character William. The relationship
 between Mr Tom and William is central to the film and the novel. However, t
he limited time frame of the film does not allow for this relationship to be prese
nted with as much detail as the novel. Mr. Tom has a reputation for b
eing unkind and harsh, but the reader soon learns he is withdrawn because he i
s grieving for his deceased wife and child. While Mr Tom is a stern, old, grumpy man at fi
rst, he turns into a lo
vely, caring man with feelings for his new found child and friend William. C
hapter one describes Mr Tom as “Well into his sixties, a healthy, robust, stockily built man wi
th a head of thick white hair.” Mr. Tom always 
let William be himself, loved him for who he was
, and tried desperately to communicate this to him. Mr Tom lives alone in a small hou
se, loves to garden and has a dog called Sam. When William first arrives a
t his new house, afraid of the
 barking dog Will attempts to beat Sam. Mr Tom grabs the stick and stops him. Will had been taught
 that dogs were the devil. Mr Tom struggles to reach out to poor
 Willie, giving him his first 
birthday party, taking him fishing and en
couraging him to draw. Together they form a trusted friendship enough for M
r Tom to rescue him from London during the bombing. While Mr Tom has been very good for W
illiam, this has enabled Mr Tom to also move on and heal from his past loss. Our 
academic experts are ready and waiting to assist with any writing project you may have
. From simple essay plans, through to full disse
rtations, you can guarantee we have a s
ervice perfectly matched to your needs.View our 
services While the film captures the nicer side of 
Tom it doesn’t give a fair representation of his tougher 
side. Both the film and the novel give minimal insight into 
his past family relationships. The film shows Mr Tom being sad and visiting the grave of his Wi
fe and Son every morning, thus capturing his loneliness and grief, this has been shown be
tter in the film than the nov
el. While the novel can’t descr
ibe everything it does capture t
he characters feelings, whereas the film can’t 
include everything in the short space of viewing time. However the film shows goo
d visual representations of Tom an William Cite This Work To export a r
eference to this article please select a referencing stye below: Related ServicesView all DMCA / Re
moval Request If you are the original writer of this essay and no longer wi
sh to have your work published on UKEssays.com then please:
In January we began a survey of the history of Am
erican orchestral music with George Bristow, bor
n in 1825. Now in December we end 2016 with two compo
sers who lived into the 1940s, wrapping up an American c
entury with Frederick Shepherd Converse and Carl Busch, representing American music as well a
s any other two. New Englander Converse could be a mode
l for the American composer at that time. The son 
of a wealthy businessman, his musical gifts overrode hi
s father’s desire for him to join the business. He studied composition with J
ohn Knowles Paine and George W. Chadwick, then went to 
Munich and studied with Ch
adwick’s teacher Joseph Rheinberger. Returning to the States, he taught at Bosto
n’s New England Conserv
atory of Music (Chadwick having in the m
eantime become its director), then at Harvard. Bu
t after only eight years total of teaching, Converse 
left academia to compose full-time. He wrote choral and 
orchestral works, as well as operas. The Irish-themed The Pipe of Desire was the first oper
a by a native-born American to see the s
tage of the Metropolitan Opera. The small Serenade for strings was followed by his grand t
one poem, The Mystic Trumpeter, which was based on Walt Whitman, and
 premiered by the young Philadelphia Orch
estra in 1904. Along with The Mystic 
Trumpeter, his much late
r Flivver Ten Million has become his most-played orchestral work. Flivver humorous
ly celebrates the ten-millionth Ford Model T to roll off the conveyor belt. Converse 
said he wondered “what Mark Twain would have done with such a theme if he had been a musician.” The 
Danish composer and violinist Carl Busch studied in Brussels and Paris, and at 25 was invited
 to Kansas City, Missouri by 
the Danish consulate there. He formed a string quartet, came to the United States, and stayed. H
e became the leading musician in Kansas City
, directing the Philharmonic Choral Society and the Kansas City Symphony Orchestra. Busch fell i
n love with American Western and Native American cultures. Many of his works use home-gr
own melodies, including, in his Four North American Legends, Chippewa tunes. 
The so-called Indianist Movement in music, though a short-lived phas
e, grew out of the urge to find unique American folk elements from wh
ich to craft an American classical music. The irony that Ame
ricans were partly spurred on in thi
s quest by foreigners 
has not been lost. Antonin Dvorak famously wrote the very thing in t
he 1890s while here, and the Danish-American Carl Busch was one of those who
 led the way. Discoverie
s from the Fleisher Collect
ion, Saturday, December 3rd, 5 to 6 p
m, with hosts Kile Smith and Jack Moore. Frederick Shepherd Converse (1871-1940). Serenade (c.190
3) Converse. The Mystic Trumpeter (1904) Carl Busch (1862-1943). Oma
ha Indian Love Song; Chippewa Lullaby, from Four North A
merican Legends (1918) B
usch. Elegie (1899) Converse. Flivver Ten Million (1926)
Wednesday, October 13, 2010 
SEEDS OF CHANGE- JEN CULLERTON JOHNSON "Those trees you are cutting down today wer
e not planted by you but by those who came 
before. You must plan
t trees that will benefit the community to come, like a seedling with sun, good s
oil, and abundant rain, the roots of our futur
e will bury themselves in the ground and a canopy of hope
 will reach the sky." SEEDS OF CHANGE is the biography of Nobel 
Peace Prize winner Wangari Maath
ai. Maathai grew up in Kenya and atte
nded college in the Unite
d States. When she returned to Kenya, Matthai was deeply saddened by the deforestation o
f her country. She started the Greenbelt Movement, a group which restored the Ken
yan countryside by planting over thirty million trees. Matthai was a groundbreaker m
any times over-- when she was growing up, not many girls went to school, or c
ontinued on to college, or became u
niversity professors. At one point, she was even jailed by corrupt poli
ticians more concerned about profits than reforestation. This is a well
-told story with gorgeous, vibrant, richly illustrations (by artist Sonia Lynn Sadler) that beg to b
e closely examined. I could
 use this book in a hundred ways. Our second graders are doing a science unit on tre
es and plants right now. Almost eve
ry day, a very serious seven-year-old reminds me that I should not cut down any trees 
because they give oxygen to
 the earth. I'll start by giving the book to them this morning. Our third graders are w
orking on ecosystems and this book would be perfect for that unit
. It's also a great bi
ography. Or would be perfect in a unit
 on courage. Or change. Or the power of the individual
. Or it might be fun to look for 
other books about Nobel Peace Prize winners and string them together. And then there are th
ose illustrations, that
 just beg to be studied and imitated…
Japan is set to be nuclear p
ower-free, for just the third time in more than four decades, and with no firm date for re-sta
rting an energy source that has provided about 30 percent of electricity 
to the world’s third-largest e
conomy. >Kansai Electric Power 
Co’s 1,180 MW Ohi No.4 reactor is scheduled to be disconnected 
from the power grid late on Sunday and then shut for planned maintenance. It is the only o
ne of Japan’s 50 reactors in operation after the nuclear industry came to a vi
rtual halt following the March 2011
 Fukushima disaster. Japan last went without nuclear power in May-
June 2012 – the first shutdown since 1970 – a year after a massive earthquake and
 tsunami triggered reactor meltdowns and radiation leaks at the Fukushima facility. The 
country’s nuclear reactors provided close to a third of the elec
tricity to keep the $5 trillion economy going before the Fukushima disaster, and utiliti
es have had to spend billions of dollars importing oil, gas and coal to make up for th
e shortfall. […] Japan consumes about a third of the world’s liquefied n
atural gas (LNG) production,
 and will likely boost LNG demand to record levels ove
r the next couple of years. LNG imports rose 4.4 percent in volume to a record 86
.87 million tonnes, and 14.9 percent in value to a record
 6.21 trillion yen ($62.1 billion) in the year through March. Imports are likely to rise to ar
ound 88 million tonnes this year and around 
90 million tonnes in 
the year to March 2015, according to projections by the Institute of Energy Eco
nomics Japan based on a mid-scenario that 16 reactors will be back on-line by March
 2015.< See on www.scientific
american.com
Modern humans crowded out E
uropes Neanderthals Scientis
ts have long debated what caused the Neanderthals to die off rather suddenly, making 
way for the thriving popu
lation of more advanced Homo sapiens who likely moved in from Africa. The latest theory, pu
blished in the journal Science, is based on a
 statistical analysis of artifacts and evidence from the Perig
ord region of southern France, where lies the largest concentration of Neanderthal and ea
rly modern human sites in Europe. Researchers at the University of Cambridge found more si
tes where modern humans settled, larger settlement areas, greater densities of tools and big
ger amounts of animal and food remains, s
uggesting Neanderthals were crowded out. Homo sapiens also likely had mor
e elaborate social networks and possibl
y sharper brains, as evidenced by the stone tools, jewelry
 and artwork they left behind wh
ich was much more advanced than Neanderthal creations. Their 
arrival in such larg
e numbers likely forced Neanderthals from their hab
itual settlements and into pl
aces where food and shelter were harder to find, sai
d lead author Paul Mellars of Ca
mbridge University. “It was clearly thi
s range of new technological and behavioral 
innovations which allowed the modern human populations to invade and survive in muc
h larger population numbers tha
n those of the preceding Neanderthals across the wh
ole of the European continent,” he said. “Faced with this kind of competition, 
the Neanderthals seem to have retreated 
initially into more marginal and l
ess attractive regions of the continent.” The last traces of
 Neanderthals, who had survived on the continent for some
 300,000 years, have been uncovered in caves in moder
n-day Spain and Gibraltar. Mellars suggested a final death blow may have been delivered 
by a harsh cold snap, 
a theory that has been debated in the s
cientific community for many years. The Neanderthals’ extinction may hav
e been “accelerated furth
er by sudden climatic deterioration across the continent around 40,000 years ago,” he sai
d.
USGS Groundwater Information 
Groundwater Resources Program New & Noteworthy Press Release: High Plains Aquifer 
Groundwater Levels Continue to Decline USGS Groundwater Watch 
USGS maintains a network of active wells
 to provide basic statistics about groundwater levels. Othe
r Water Topics USGS in Your State USGS Water Science Centers are located in each s
tate. Recession-Curve Displacement Method for Estimat
ing Groundwater Rech
arge In Humid Regions Refer
ences for the Recession-Curve Displacement Method Beva
ns, H.E., 1986, Estimating stream-aquifer interactions in coal areas of east
ern Kansas by using streamflow records, in Subitzky, Seymour, ed., Selected 
papers in the Hydrologic
 Sciences: U.S. Geological Survey Water-Supply Paper
 2290, p. 51-64. Chen, W.P., and Lee, C.H., 2003, Estimating ground-water recharge from streamfl
ow records: Environmental Geology, vol 44., p. 
257-265. Coes, A.L., Spru
ill, T.B., and Thomasson, M.J., 2007, Comparison of recharge rates estimated from multiple methods f
or a shallow unconfined aquifer: Hydrogeology Journal, accessed online Feb 7, 2007 at http:
//dx.doi.org/10.1007/s10040-006-0123-3 Daniel, J.F., 19
76, Estimating groundwater evapotranspiration from streamflow records: Water R
esources Research, v. 12, no. 3 p. 360-3
64. Delin, G.N., Healy, R.W., Lorenz, D.L., and
 Nimmo, J.R., 2007, Comparison of local- to regional-scale estimates of ground-water
 recharge in Minnesota, USA: Journal of Hydrology, vol. 334, no. 1-2, p.2
31-249. Dumouchelle, D.H., and Schiefer, M.C., 2
002, Use of streamflow 
records and basin characteris
tics to estimate ground-water recharge rates in Ohio: Ohio Dept.
 of Natural Resources, Division of Water, Bulletin 46, 32 p. Flynn, R.H., and Ta
sker, G.D., 2004, Generalized estimates from streamflow 
data of annual and seasonal ground
-water-recharge rates for drainage basins in New Hampshire: U.S. Geological Sur
vey Scientific Investigations Report 2004-5019 27 p. Glover, R. E., 1964, Gro
und-water movement: U.S
. Bureau of Reclamation Engineering Monograph Series no. 31, 
p. 31-34. Halford, K.J., and Mayer, G.C.
, 2000, Problems associated with esti
mating ground water discharge and recharge from stream-discharge records: Ground Water, vol. 38,
 no. 3, p. 331-342. Lorenz, D.W., and Delin, G.N., A regression model to estima
te regional ground-water recharge in Minnesota: Ground Water Vol 45, no. 2, p 196-208. Mau
, D.P., and Winter, T.C., 1996, Estimating ground-water recharge
 from streamflow hydrographs from a small mountain watershed in
 a temperate humid clima
te, New Hampshire, USA: Ground Water, vol. 35, no. 2, p. 291-304. Risser, D.W., Conger, R.W., U
lrich, J.E., and Asmussen, M.P., 2005a, Estimates o
f ground-water recharge based on streamflow
-hydrograph methods: Pennsylvania: U.S. Geological Survey Open-File Report 2005-1333, 30 
p. Risser, D.W., Gburek, W.J., and Folmar, G.J., 2005b, Comparison of methods for estimat
ing ground-water recharge and base flow at a small watershed under
lain by fractured bedrock in the eastern United States: U.S. G
eological Survey Scientific Investigations
 Report 2005-5038, 31 p. Rorabaugh, M.I., 1960, Use of water levels in estima
ting aquifer constants in a finite aquifer: Internat
ional Association of Scientific Hydrology, Publication 52, p. 314-323 Rorabaugh, M.I., 1964, Estim
ating changes in bank storage and ground-water contrib
ution to streamflow: International Association 
of Scientific Hydrology, Publication 63, p. 432-441. Rorabaugh, M.I. and
 Simons, W.D., 1966, Exploration of methods relating ground water to surface water, Columbi
a River basin – second phase: U.S. Geological Survey Open-File Repo
rt, 62 p. Ruhl, J.F.,
 Kanivetsky, Roman, Shmagin, Boris, 2002, Estimates o
f recharge to unconfined aquifers and leakage to confined aquifers in t
he seven-county metropolitan area of Minneapolis-St. Paul, Minnesota, U.S. Geological Survey Wate
r-Resources Investigations Report 02-4092, 32 p. 
Rutledge, A.T., 1997, Model es
timated ground-water recharge and hydrograph of ground-water discharge to a stream: U.S. Geol
. Survey Water Resources Investigations Report 97-4253
, 29 p. Rutledge, A.T., 1998, Computer programs for des
cribing the recession of ground-water discharge and for estima
ting mean ground-water recharge and discharge from str
eamflow data – update: U
.S. Geological Survey Water-Resources Investigations Report 98-4148, 43 p. Rutl
edge, A.T., 2000, Considerations for use of the RORA program to estimate ground-water rec
harge from streamflow records: U.S.
 Geological Survey Open-File Report 00-156, 44 p. Rutledge, A.T., 2002, Us
er guide for the PULSE program: U.S. Geological Survey Open-File Report 02-45
5, p. 34. Rutledge, A.T.,
 2004, Use of RORA for complex ground-water flow conditions: U.S. Geological Survey Water-Res
ources Investigations Report 2003-4304, 5 p. Rutledge, A.T. and Mesk
o, T.O., 1996, Estimated h
ydrologic characteristics of shallow aquife
r systems in the Valley and Ridge, the Blue Ridge, and the Piedmont physiographic provinces based 
on analysis of streamflow 
recession and base flow: U.S. Geo
logical Survey Professional Paper 1422-B, 58 p. S
un, Honging, 2004, Estimating the fate of precipitation from stream discha
rge: A case study in 
New Jersey: Bulletin New Jersey Academy of Science, vol 49, no. 2, p. 9-15.
We all know the human heart h
elps pump blood throughout our bodies, but there are som
e components involved in the heart that most people don’t know about. The more we learn about somet
hing, the better we can understand. The Univers
ity of Tokyo created a virtual
 simulation of the heart and it
s function. Using something calle
d the Finite Element Method, they showed the amount of en
ergy consumed in each part of the heart. The virtual representation viewe
d the heart’s surface and the differences in thickness of the heart’s m
uscle and interior structure. It goes on to explain how th
e heart has two sides, in which the right side has t
he right atrium and ventricle that
 connect to the pulmonary artery. The left side has the an atrium an
d ventricle as well but is connected to the ao
rta. Located between the left atrium and ventricle is the mitral valve, and aortic val
ve is located between the left ventricle and the aorta. The lungs give oxygen to the 
blood which goes from the pulmonary vein into the heart then to the left atrium. The left vent
ricle, found behind the mitral valve, pumps blood and rotates it 180 degrees 
in the direction of the aortic va
lve. Oxygen and nutrients are carried throughout the body when blood is stro
ngly pushed toward the aortic valve and eventually goes through the aorta. The phrase bl
ood pressure comes f
rom the pressure of the aorta. A person’s blood pressure goes up as the heart contracts and 
goes down as it relaxes. The more we
 understand the heart, then the better docto
rs can more accurately predict a patient’s results. Devices like an ambulatory cardiac m
onitor help doctors assist patients in regards to their heart’s activity and increase 
patient’s chances of avoiding any seriou
s heart issues. For more information on ambulatory cardiac monitors, conta
ct Medicomp at (800) 23-HEART.
It is frequently cited that more than half o
f us now live in cities. But it might come as more of a surprise to learn that the la
rgest 300 cities, from New York to Guangzhou, account 
for nearly half (48%) o
f world economic output ... yet contain only 19% of world population. Some cities are 
so powerful economically that they dwarf the rest of their country. The number of jobs they h
ouse and GDP they generate can account for almost half of their nations' output, if not 
more. They are no longer just cities: they are approaching the status of city-state. London, fo
r example, produces more than 30% of Britain's entire GDP. Neither is it the most ext
reme example: it is just 30th on our list of cit
ies that most dominat
e their countries (see below). The ranking is led by the "classic" cit
y-states – Luxembourg, Macau, Hong Kong, Singapore, places where
 the city essentially is the country. But look at Brussels (59%
 of national GDP), Copenhagen (55%) or Tel Avi
v (54%). Is it time we start calling the
m city-states, too? (Note tha
t in a small number of cases, the metro area boundaries extend beyond country borders. 
This explains why the GDP and employment of Luxembourg City actually exceed t
hose of Luxembourg country
. You could almost say Luxembourg country is a "state-city". More detail h
ere [pdf].) What's more, even the sm
aller cities may be on their way toward city-statehood:
 according to Brookings' Global Metro Monitor, between 2011-12 most cities in
 the world grew faster t
han their countries, either in jobs or GDP.
At the start of the 20th century: Lawrence produced nearly 25% of 
all the woolen cloth in the U.S. 65% of manufacturin
g output, 67% of all the capital invested, and 66% o
f expenditures for material were from woolen mills. 52% of the city’s wages came from th
e woolen mills. “…there are two very desirable luxuries in the city of Lawre
nce, Mass., among the mill operatives, t
hat is, molasses on their bread and water.” — Lawrence cit
y official testifying at the March 1912 Congressional hearings on the strike At the time of the stri
ke half of the workers in the four Lawrence mills of the American
 Woolen Company were girls between 14 and 18. Spinners worked
 in extremely damp and humid rooms and were vul
nerable to tuberculosi
s and pneumonia. In the years before the 1912 strike, one third of Lawrence’s spinners would
 die before they had worked ten years. According to Dr. Elizabe
th Shapleigh, a Lawrence physician at the time of the strike, “A consid
erable number of the boys and girls die within the first two or three years after beginnin
g work.” Thirty-six of every 100 of all men and wome
n who work in the mills die b
efore or by the time they are 25 years of age. From the U. S. Immi
gration Commission (1912): “Thus while probably not over half of the present pop
ulation is foreign born, only 1/7 of the population is American; that is either not of foreign
 birth or immediate foreign parentage. The result of this changed situation,
 due to sixty years of continuous immigration, is both favorable and unfavorable to the assimilatio
n of the immigrant population… The
 presence of a large semi-Americanized for
eign population makes it less and less certain that the newly arrived stra
nger will be brought into direct contact with American in
fluences and traditions…” In 1910, 65% of mill workers, most of whom event
ually struck, lived in the United States less than 10 years; 
47% less than five years. The New England Magazine crudely refer
red to recent immigrants as “the off-scourings of Southern Europe” who “will not b
e assimilated and have no sympathy with our in
stitutions.”
The ease of doing business rankings for 2017 was
 recently released by the World Bank. It re
vealed that India has made a rank progress o
ver 2016. That looks pale in front of the 12 ranks progress ma
de in 2016. The ease of doing business is a 
composite ranking on 10 parameters (shown in the table below).
 Though India has improved on the overall rank, its rank has gone down on certain parameters 
like starting a new b
usiness, dealing with construction per
mits and getting credit, where as it has gone
 up significantly on certain others like getting electricity and enforcing
 contracts. It is to b
e noted here that India’s absolute performance (as measured in Dis
tance to Frontier or DTF score) has risen across all the parameters (except
 three where it has remained the same). It’s the other countr
ies who have done better and gone up in the ranking list. It’s 
a competitive world and simply doing good is not good enough, a country has to do better tha
n others in order to impro
ve its rank. World Bank Methodology Economies are ranked on their ease 
of doing business, from 1–190. A h
igh ease of doing business ranking means the regula
tory environment is more conducive to the starting a
nd operation of a local firm. 
The rankings are determined by sorting the aggregate distance t
o frontier scores on 10 topics, each consisting of several indicators, giving equal we
ight to each topic. The rankings for all economies are benchm
arked to June 2016. Read the methodology, explaining how the ease of doing busin
ess rankings and the distance to frontier measure are
 calculated (PDF). The distance t
o frontier score helps assess the absolute level of regulatory 
performance over time. It measures the distance of each economy to the 
“frontier,” which repr
esents the best performance observed on each of the indica
tors across all economies in the Doing Business sample si
nce 2005. One can both see the gap between a particular ec
onomy’s performance and the best performance at any point in time and assess the absolut
e change in the economy’s regulator
y environment over time as measured by Doing Business. An economy’s distance to frontier is reflec
ted on a scale from 0 to 100, where 0 represents the lowest performance an
d 100 represent the frontier. For example, a score of 75 in 2016 means an economy was 25 
percentage points away from the
 frontier constructed from the best performances 
across all economies and ac
ross time. A score of 80 in 2017 would indicate the economy is improving.
 Source – http://www.doingbusiness.org/ /rankings. India’s Distance
 to Frontier score on most of the parameter
s have improved over the last one year. The road ahead for India – Maximum Governance
 Analysis The ease of doing busines
s rank is going to be
 a key indicator of India’s ability to turn around th
e various initiatives to
 its advantage. Many of the key reforms started during the last one decade have evolved. Co
upled with massive policy reforms undertaken by the current government,
 their effects shall come in the next few years. We b
elieve that the cumulative effect of poli
cy reforms, initiatives and capacity building for implementing them shall b
ring a big impact by 2018 and significantly improve our ease of doing business for 2019 (
to be released in 2018). That in a way may serve as 
a holistic report card for t
he current government’s ability to help boo
st economy by building the right environment before the general elections of 2019. Tho
ugh there are multiple initiatives and reforms un
dertaken by the Government, we discuss here three domains of focus for improving In
dia’s ease of doing business rank: 1. A h
uge opportunity remains in the areas of ‘enforcing contracts’ and ‘resolving insolvency’, both o
f which fall in the domain of Judiciary. A str
ong reform measure needs to be taken to bring down the cost of litigation and time ta
ken for judgment and enhance the rate 
of recovery. India’s current DTF score on both the parameters is in the 30s and offers a b
ig room for improvement. Government recent
ly passed THE INSOLVENCY AND BANKRUPTCY CODE, 2016, which shall help improve the c
ondition. 2. The second area needing great att
ention is that of ‘dealing with construction permits’, a domain of civic bodies. A larg
e number of processes need to be completed (43 in Mumbai and 29 in Delhi) to ge
t clearance for using physical sites for offices, warehouses, godow
ns etc. It requires si
mplification by reducing the number of processes and enhancing the speed of delivery. 3. The third 
area of big leverage is the ‘paying taxes’ domain. We 
believe with GST becoming a reality, the number of indirect taxes shall drastically red
uce making it a lot simpler. The government is also planning to offe
r the businesses easier and convenient way
s to pay GST. As discussed in the article Unif
ied Digital Identity for Ease of Doing Business, a big push to eas
e of doing business can be achieve
d by giving one single identity to the business entity. Rather than interacting with multi
ple departments of the government with mul
tiple identities (as many numbers and passwords), can there be a single window, which allows to com
plete all the formalities of starting and running a business. The case of Singapore CorpPass 
is a great example. Even
 in India, the work has begin towards that end with Income Tax 
integrating with TDS portal and Ministry of Labour and Employment issuing one un
ique Labour Identity Number (LIN) to comply with as 
many as 44 regulations related to the work force. Another level of integration 
at the higher level may be required and add immensely to ease
 of doing business. Last but never the least is the need for great
er speed and agility in rolling out these reforms. As highlighted at the beginning of the article
, it’s the relative progress vis-à-vis other cou
ntries that matters.
They may be small but these mighty ber
ries has a lot to offer. Here’s the list o
f their mighty benefits: 1.They Fight Against Dis
eases Both wild and cultivated blueberries h
as the highest total of antioxidant c
apacity. Antioxidants fight disease-inducing free radicals in our body. 2.Helps in Reducing Weigh
t Blueberry intake affected genes linked to fat burning and storage. 3.Prevents High B
lood Pressure The Blue- Red pigments found in Blueberries which are called “Anthocyanins”
 helps prevent high blood pressure by lowering the triglycerides and cholesterol level i
n the body. 4.Aids in Memory Retention The good thing about Anthocyanins in blueberries is that, t
hey not only helps prevent high blood pressure, but anthocyanins also inc
reases neuronal signalling i
n brain centres for better memory retention. 5.Lowers your risk of Having Cancer Pterosti
lbene, a compound in blueberries has the ability to suppress colon tumour gro
wth, as well as key inflam
matory markers. 6.Protects your Kidneys and Ur
inary Bladder Like cranberries, blueberries contains compounds that p
revents bacteria from adhering to bladder walls, which helps remove Urinar
y Tract Infections. (UTI) Source: 
Better Health Publishing
This is ‘What If’ and here’s how you can survive as the last person on earth.
 So, you wake up one day and find that you’re the only person 
left in the world. Kind of cool, right? No obligations, no rules, no limits. 没有了责任 没有了规则 没有了限制 Go 
for the exotic fruits firs
t. If your mangos and bananas ar
e imported from overseas, chances are they’ll be 
hard to come by. So eat them while you can, and enjoy every last bite. You might think 
that with no one stopping you, you could go anywhere! But n
ot so fast! All thos
e abandoned cars, boats, and planes you see lying around will be u
seless in about 2 years when their fuel goes stale. Guess you’ll be sticking around.
 But for how long? If water, food, and shelter are your basic needs, sh
elter would be the easiest to come by. You’d literally have 
a world of homes to choose from! But be careful where you 
settle down. Cities would become dangerous, since without proper maintenance, they’d start 
to fall apart pretty quickly. Nature’s elements: rain, frost
, and heat, would take their toll. Rot and mold would b
ecome widespread, and vegetation would crack through concrete and bre
ak through glass. But even if you were able to fight back a
gainst nature’s reclamation of the land, all it takes is one bol
t of lightning to start a city-wide fire. And you can’t call the fire departm
ent. So run for the hills! But even the co
untry isn’t all that safe. First of all
, there are predators you’d ne
ed to defend against. Wild dogs, feral cats… bears… 野狗 野猫 熊…… But you’d o
nly have to worry about th
em as long as you cou
ld still breathe. There are more than 400 nu
clear power plants in the world. And on
ce their automated safety systems began to fail without human supervision, there would be meltdowns
 across the planet, rendering many regions simply uninhabitable. In terms of food, the city w
ould be your best bet. Supermarkets have enough canned and frozen food to last you for de
cades! Whereas in the country, crops and livestock would start to dwindl
e without proper care or protection from predators. But if 
natural is more your style, 
you’d have to go back to the old ways of hunting with a spear or a bow, since ammunition 
would be limited and harder to come by. Maybe you could grow your own little vegetable
 garden, but that would cut into your water resources. Withou
t other humans, you’d be without electricity. Water pumping stations and treatment works wo
uld shut down, and the fresh water kept in reservoirs would go 
stale quite quickly. You could rely on bottled water, and you’d probably have thousands o
f litres to go through, but eventually, you’d have to le
arn how to purify your ow
n. You’d have to teach yourself a lot of thin
gs, but lucky for you, you’ve got a lot of time on your 
hands, and millions of books out there wi
th all the information you’d need to survive effectively on your own. So, while 
it might be hard at first, you coul
d technically survive as the last human on Earth. But would you r
eally want to? Humans evolved together as social creatures in order to survive. We joined fo
rces against hunger and harsh weath
er; and built families and communities to share stories, empathize, and keep each other happy and
 healthy. Human contact has been scient
ifically proven to build trust and reduce stress. 科学证明 人类的交往可建立信任 减少压力 So, while it’s apt to c
ramp your style, be glad it’s a small world, we need each other more than you think!
Tisbe biminiensis is perhaps the most recognized copepod species in the Ree
f Aquarium Hobby. This is for good reason as this 
species’ rapid reproductive rate, outstanding nutritiona
l profile and diverse diet make it perfect fo
r seeding both new and aged aquarium
s. When it comes to Tisbe and Reefs, one cannot go wrong. Co
pepods act as the vital translator between microbial and anima
l nutrition. Lipids, amino acids, pigments, sugars 
and other essential nutritious elemen
ts all derive from photosynthetic organisms (phyt
oplankton, photosynthetic bacteria, macroalgae etc.). Copepods are adept at concen
trating this nutrition by grazing on these various microbes. Some copepods, such as the pelagic cal
anoids (Parvocalanus, Pseudodiaptomus) are specifically adapted to strictly open-water life styles, 
only preying on live microalgae cells. Other copepods are far more cosmopolitan in their 
diet, and are able to graze on a meride of 
prey items ranging from live microalgae, to bacteria biofilms, to detritus, to formulated
 powdered feeds. Tisbe biminiensis is such a copepod of universal hunger. Tisb
e biminiensis is a harpacticoid copepod in the family Tisbidae. The species
 is tropical in origin, yet is so u
biquitous it may be difficult to discern a
 specific range. The
y survive in both oceanic and estuarine environments and rarely seem
 to survive below 20ppt. Like other harpacticoids, Tisbe are defi
ned by a free-swimming larval sta
ge (nauplii) eventually metamorphosing into a ‘cra
wling’ adult copepod. The adult Tisbe spends 
the majority of its time on substrate but will make periodic suarez into op
en water through a ‘scooting’ locomotion. After mating, females will de
velop a large egg sac, almos
t equal to her own body size, c
omposed of several dozen eggs
. The egg sac will be larger and mo
re pigmented as females age a
nd/or receive better nutrition. Eggs hatch into nauplii of about (50-75um) 
in size which metamorphose into a 
series of adolescent copepodite instars until eventually becoming full grown adults of around (50
0-750um) in size. Tisb
e biminiensis copepods become sexually mature at (5-8) days 
and can reproduce several times in their (2-4) week life span. Tisbe copep
ods have a ‘boom and bust’ life cycle characterized by rapid reproduction 
followed by acute collapse if the population is not controlled by g
razing or can expand to new habitat. Tisbe Co
pepods as Micro cleanup Crew in the Reef Aquarium Harpactico
id copepods act as the vital translator of lo
st nutrition. Wastes of all variet
ies (uneaten feed, feces, mucus etc.) accrue into the collective detritus. I
n both wild and aquarium ecosystems, detritus is a largely inaccessible treasure trove of amino
 acids, fatty acids, vitamins, minerals and probiotics. Both the morphology and b
ehavior of Tisbe cope
pods have evolved to seek out and utilize such lost nutrition. Tisbe biminiensis is a 
generalist grazer, possessing specialized mandibles for the con
sumption of bacterial and microalgal biofilms. Such microorganisms dir
ectly utilize inorganic detritus and grow rapidly into complexes, which on-mass, v
isually dirty the glass and rockwork of aquariums. Pest diatom biofi
lms have a particular app
eal to harpacticoid copepod species due to t
heir likely elevated level of pigments and Golden Fats (ARA/EPA/DHA). Adult Tisbe bim
iniensis occupy the various substrates where t
hese unattractive biofilms accrue and microscopically scrape thes
e surfaces. Furthermore, adult Tisbe copepods are n
egatively phototactic, meaning they impulsive
ly flee the light. This means that Tisbe copepods prefer to
 live in the deepest, darkest cr
evices where detritus accrues…in the aq
uarium, this is likely the live rock, mechanical filtration an
d greater sump. This 
species will reproduce rapidly in any environment which is remotely favor
able, creating a surplus population to colonize and clean new areas of detritus. This collective
 grazing has an added be
nefit in these detritus-prone regions as it allows for increased 
flow and oxygenation…
which may promote more favorable microbial communities and
 reduce future buildup of wastes. This i
s why harpacticoid copepods are often referred to as an esse
ntial micro cleanup crew of reef aquariums. Pod with Golden Guts The ga
strointestinal infrastructure and microbiome is where the Tisbe jewe
l sources its sparkle. This species is able to dramatically improve the quality 
of food received in its diet. T
he magic behind this are enzymes which are able to elongate and desaturate fatty acids. This mean
s that this species can and will survive and thrive off a v
ariety of inferior food items ranging in nutritional value from detritus to baker’s yea
st. They are then capable of converting the lesser fats in their forage into Golden
 Fats (PUFAs), more suitable for consumption by fish and corals. This is essential 
for being able to recuperate 
and recycle waste lipids back into nutritious live feed. Ti
sbe copepods are also more than capable of utilizing premium quality food items such as pow
dered coral feeds and live microalgae. When they
 receive good nutrition from 
the start, Tisbe copepods exhibit pleasant hallmarks such as 
enhanced fatty acid profile,
 accelerated growth, larger adult size, greater pigmentation. Alejos Cabrera et al. 2022 observed ov
er 50% retention of dietary PUFAs (ARA, EPA, DHA) in Tisbe bimini
ensis fed a diet of live Tisoc
hrysis lutea microalgae. 
Golden Fats are an important but 
not isolated aspect to the nutritional p
otential of this species. The gut of Tisbe biminiensis contains many important elements inc
luding enzymes, proteases and probiotics…all of which remain stable and intact until
 they are bestowed upon the fish o
r coral lucky enough to consume a Tisbe copepod. Tisbe Copepods as Functional Fish Food As localized
 populations of Tisbe biminiensis copepods increase over time, new generations w
ill be forced into less an
d less favorable habitat. This is when mass amounts of adult Tisbe copepod
s will likely be seen on the glass and in other highly illuminated parts 
of the aquarium. Copepods in t
hese zones are feasting upon 
photosynthetic biofilms which are likely of a significantly high
er nutritional value than unilluminated detritus. Better yet, indiv
idual copepods in these a
reas are highly available to fish. Many species of reef fish such as dragonets (Callionymida
e), seahorses (Sygnathidae), and anthias (Anthii
nae), are especially adapted to forage f
or copepods. Such species are defined by a fast metab
olism and small cardiac stomach…meaning they display a s
trong preference for small, live prey offered conti
nuously rather than in large,
 period feedings. For instance, a single adult ma
ndarin dragonet (Synchiropus splen
didus) can consume hundreds to thousands of copepods in a 24 to 
72 hour period. It is therefore favorable to have sustained populations
 of Tisbe copepods colonizing the
 rockwork, refugium and filtration of a reef aquarium, so that there is a continuous surplus popul
ation which becomes discharged 
into the main tank display. 
Because Tisbe biminiensis copepods are able to utilize 
organic detritus as well as algae/bacterial biofilms as a food sourc
e, they truly function as a sustainable fish food. Organics and organisms t
hat would be a pest/chemical liability in excess can bec
ome recuperated and recycled in the form of highly nutriti
ous microcrustaceans. Because of their robust gastrointestinal system and m
icrobiome, Tisbe biminiensis is a functional live feed rich in essential amino acids, golden li
pids, proteases, enzymes, bioactive vitamins, minerals and probiotics.
 As long as there are supple Tisbe copepod
s available, small-mouthed fish will never starve. Tisbe Copepods As Food for Corals, Anemones & Je
llyfish Tisbe copepods are a
lso invaluable food for a wide range o
f zooplankton-feeding invertebrates. It is the ear
ly nauplii stage which is most valuable as a feed for corals and anemones. Nauplii are free-swimming
 and can be continuously produced thousan
d-fold by a robust adult population. Adult Tisbe copepod
s can also be subject to coral grazing, especially during a ‘feed period’ when pumps are t
emporarily ceased and coral food (p
owdered, live microalgae, amino acids) is broadcast or target fed. Adult Tisbe cope
pods are likely to be attracted to any added coral feeds and will congregate around corals at su
ch times. Feeding high densities of Tisbe copepods from an external culture benefits photo
synthetic coral species which are currently very limited in the hobby. There are many potential appl
ications for this species in the husbandry of various jellyfish species. T
he circular chrysal-style aquariums used to house 
many pelagic jellyfish species 
are often difficult to clean with conventional sc
rapers. It is therefore highly invaluable to have a dense population of Tisbe pods t
o reduce accumulation of the exhibit’s unsightly a
lgae/bacterial biofilms, while
 at the same time, being grazed upon by its jellyfish 
residents. Utilizing Tisbe, and other copepod species, as a live feed will allow for 
both the public and p
rivate aquarist to have access to a much greater
 assortment of novel display species. Tisbe Copepods in Greater Global Aquaculture There i
s a growing appreciat
ion of Tisbe copepods for improving the produ
ction in commercial aquaculture hatcheries. T
isbe has many advantages over conventional live feed species s
uch as rotifers (Brachionus sp.) and Artemia sp. Firstly, they effectively cover the sixe ne
eds for both of the former, as Tisbe nauplii are comparab
le in size to even SS rotifers (Brachionus rotundiformis), while adult copepods are th
e same useful size as newly hatched Artemia franciscana naup
lii. Secondly, aquacultured copepods have far less ris
k of bacterial contamination than dehydrated Artemia cysts, which often arriv
e coated in Vibrio sp. Spores. Thirdly, Tisbe biminiensis cannot prey on fish/invertebra
te larvae even as an adult, unlike adult Ar
temia. Fourthly, copepods have a far better nutritional pro
file, having the ability to retain far higher
 concentrations of th
e Golden Fats ARA, EPA and DHA. Furthermore, these fats are biocontextualized by an
 array of copepod enzymes, prebiotics and prob
iotics. With these advantages in mind, it is no wonder that Tisbe copepods are becoming growingly e
mbraced by commercial marine aquaculture of all kinds. Kahan et al 1982 used Tisbe biminiensis n
auplii and adults as an effective feed for Gilthead Seabream larvae (Sparus
 aurata), an important food f
ish species in the Mediterranean. Heath et al 1997 use
d Tisbe copepods to supplement Artemia nauplii in t
he feeding of Dover Sole (Solea solea) l
arvae, observing better growth, survival and pigmentation. Similar findings were observed in larvicu
lture experiments of Turbot (Scopthalamus maximus) as well as various Dab spec
ies (Limanada sp.). da Lima et al 2013 used T
isbe copepods to rear the larvae of Cobia (Rac
hycentron canadum), though noted that success
 was dependent on diet
ary enrichment of the copepods with microalgae. There is also a host of growing evide
nce that Tisbe biminiensis can be appl
ied to penaeid shrimp farming. Lima et al 2011 noted that the larvae of Pacific White-Legged Shrimp 
(Litopaneus vannamei) could be successfully fed Tis
be biminiensis nauplii and copepodites. In this study, 
reduced Vibrio contamination risk was cited as a major advantage of copepod use. T
he same author proposed the po
tential of mass-scale Tisbe biminiensis prod
uction in salt evaporation ponds traditionall
y used to cultivate Artemia. Tisbe Copepods in Advancing a Sustainable Reef Aquarium Ind
ustry Just as it has great potential to enhance the aquaculture of food fish and invertebrates, T
isbe copepods are also actively accelerating the sustainable aqua
culture of several reef aquarium species. Olivotto et al 2008 observed marked imp
rovement in the hatchery produ
ction (in terms of growth and survival) o
f Clark’s Anemonefish (Amphiprion clarkii) larvae fe
d Tisbe biminiensis and rotifers versus rotifers alone. Perha
ps no realm of aquaculture has embraced copepods as live feed mo
re than seahorse breeders. Tisbe copepod
s have been directly applied to the large-scale cultivation of species such as the Slender Seah
orse (Hippocampus reidi). Souza-Santos
 et al 2013 observed strong preferential grazing in H. reidi larva
e for Tisbe biminiensis nauplii and rotifers (Brachionus plicatil
is) over the nauplii of Artemia sali
na. There are likely thousands o
f reef organism larvae which can be fed enriched Tisbe naup
lii…making this copepod species an incredibly inva
luable tool for advancing the sustainable aquaculture of these organisms for the 
enjoyment of the Reef Aquarium Industry. When it comes to 
the copepod Tisbe biminiensis, there is more than one reason to praise and appreciate this
 jewel of the reef underground. In external cultures it can b
e raised at ridiculous densitie
s (200+ individuals/ml!) at a rapid rate. This has made
 it an invaluable tool for advancing aquaculture both
 for food security and for the aquarium industry. Because of t
he ‘crawling’ behavior of
 this copepod, it is able to survive, thrive and persist in
 newly cycling or well aged reef aquariu
ms. In both, this species performs profound ecological services, acti
ng as a micro cleanup crew all the while suppl
ying fish, corals and invertebrates with premium microcrustacean live
 feed. Cleverly applied, Tisbe copepods can be
 used to introduce a new wave of zooplankton-eating or
ganisms into the hobby. Tough, nutritious and at the service–this is 
a copepod of the people. Whe
n it comes to Tisbe an
d Reefs, one cannot go wrong. Alejos Cabrera, R. M., Gaspar Reyes, W. A., Flores Ramos, 
L., Ynga Huaman, G. A., Ruiz Soto, A., & Nino Velasquez, A. F. (2022). Effect of time in culture o
n fatty acid composition of copepods Tisbe sp. and Apocyclops sp. Journa
l of the World Aquaculture Society, 
53(2), 475-484. Ananth, S., & Santhanam, P. (2019). Intensive Culture, Biochemical C
omposition Analysis, 
and Use of Zooplankton Tisbe sp.(Copepoda: Harpacti
coida) as an Alternative Live Feed for Shrimp Larviculture.
 In Basic and Applied Zooplankton Biology (pp. 329-362). Sp
ringer, Singapore. Araúj
o-Castro, C. M. V., & Souza-Santos, L. P. (2005). Are the di
atoms Navicula sp. and Thalassiosira fluviatilis suitable to be fed to the benthic harpacticoi
d copepod Tisbe biminiensis?. Jou
rnal of experimental marine biology and ecology, 3
27(1), 58-69. Arndt, C., & Sommer, U. (2014). Effect of algal species and concentration
 on development and fatty acid composition of two harpacticoid copepods, T isbe sp. and T
 achidius discipes, and a discussion about their suitability for marine fish
 larvae. Aquaculture Nutrition, 20(1), 44-
59. França, R. C., Amaral, I. P., Santana, W. M., Souza-Santos, L. P., Carvalho Jr, L. B., 
& Bezerra, R. S. (2010). Proteases from the
 harpacticoid copepod Tisbe biminiensis: comparative study with enzymes from farmed aquatic 
animals. Journal of Crustacean Biology, 30(1), 122-128. Heath, P. L., & Moore
, C. G. (1997). Rearing dover sole larvae onTisbe andArtemia diets. Aquaculture Internation
al, 5(1), 29-39. Kahan, D., Uhlig, G., Schwenzer, D., & Horowitz, L. (1982). A simple
 method for cultivating harpacticoid copepods and offering them to fish l
arvae. Aquaculture, 26(3-4), 303-310. de Lima, L
. C., & Souza-Santos, L. P. (2007). The ingestion rate of Litopenaeus 
vannamei larvae as a f
unction of Tisbe biminiensis copepod concen
tration. Aquaculture, 271(1-4), 411-419. Lima, L. C., & Souza-Santos, L. P. (2011). 
Growth of the brine shrimp Artemia fed on 
offspring of the copepod Tisbe biminiensis Volkmann-Rocco, 1973. Revista Bra
sileira de Engenharia de Pesca, 6(1), 48-55. de Lima, L. C. 
M. (2011). Use of Harpacticoid copepods in a
quaculture. de Lima, L. C., Navarro, D. M., & Souza-Santo
s, L. P. (2013). Effect of diet on the fatty acid composition of the copepod Ti
sbe biminiensis. Journa
l of crustacean biolog
y, 33(3), 372-381. Lin, Q., Tian, J., Yang, W., Li, M., Hu, W., Shao, J., ... & Wang, K. (201
7). Yeast and corn flour supplement to enhance large-scale culture efficiency of marine cop
epod Tisbe furcata, a potential live food for fish larvae. Israeli Journal of Aquaculture-B
amidgeh, 69, 20892. Ma, X., & Johnson, K. B. (2017). Co
mparative phototaxis of calanoid and ha
rpacticoid copepods. Marine biology, 164(1), 1-13. Mélo, R. C. S., Santos, L. P. D. S., Brito, A. 
P. M., Gouveia, A. D
. A., Marçal, C., & Cavalli, R. O. (2016). Use of the 
microalga Nannochloropsis occulata in 
the rearing of newborn longsnout seahorse Hippocampus reidi (Syngnathi
dae) juveniles. Aquaculture Research, 47(12), 3934-3941. Miliou,
 H., Moraitou-Apostolopoulou, M., & Argyridou, M. (1992).
 Biochemical composition of Tisbe holothuria
e (Copepoda: Harpactico
ida) and its differentiation in relation to devel
opmental stages. Ophelia, 36(2), 159-166. Nanton, D. A., & 
Castell, J. D. (1998). The effects
 of dietary fatty acids
 on the fatty acid composition of the harpacticoid copepod, Tisbe s
p., for use as a live food for marine fish larvae. Aquaculture, 163(3-4), 251-261. Ol
ivotto, I., Avella, M. A., Sampaolesi, G., Piccinett
i, C. C., Ruiz, P. N., & Carnevali, O. (2008). Breeding and rea
ring the longsnout seahorse Hippocampus reidi: rearin
g and feeding studies. Aquaculture, 283(1-4), 92
-96. Olivotto, I., Capri
otti, F., Buttino, I., Avella, A.
 M., Vitiello, V., Maradonna, F.,
 & Carnevali, O. (2008). The use of harpacticoid c
opepods as live prey for Amphi
prion clarkii larviculture: effects on larval survival and growth. Aquaculture, 274(2-4), 347-352.
 Pinto, C. S., Souza-Santos, L. P., & Santos, P. J. P. (2001). Development and population dynami
cs of Tisbe biminien
sis (Copepoda: Harpacticoida) reared on different diets. Aquaculture, 198(3
-4), 253-267. Puello-Cruz, A. C., González-Rodríguez, B., Garcí
a-Ortega, A., & Gómez, S. (2004). Use of a tropical harpacticoid copepod Tisb
e monozota Bowman, 1962 (Copepoda: Harpa
cticoida: Tisbidae) as live food in marine l
arviculture. Contributions to the study of East Pa
cific Crustaceans, 3, 177-187. Ribeiro, A. C., & Souza-Santos, L. P. (
2011). Mass culture and offspring production of marine harpacticoid cop
epod Tisbe biminiensis. Aquaculture, 321(3-4), 280-288. Ribeiro, A. C., & Souza-Sant
os, L. P. (2013). Mass culture of the harpacticoid copepod tisbe 
biminiensis fed inert diets. Blue Biotechnology Journal, 2(4), 583. Sales, R., Mélo, R. C
. S., de Moraes Junior, R. M., da Silva, R. C. S., Cavalli, R. O., Navarro, D. M. D. A. F., & de
 Souza Santos, L. P. (2016). Production and use of a flocculated paste of Nannoch
loropsis oculata for rearing newborn seahorse Hippocampus reidi. Algal Res
earch, 17, 142-149. Silva, R., Vinagre, C., 
Kitahara, M. V., Acorsi, I. V., Mizrahi, D., & Flores, A. A
. (2019). Sun coral invasion of shallow rocky reefs: ef
fects on mobile invertebrate assemblages in Southeastern Brazil. Biological 
Invasions, 21(4), 1339-1350. Souza‐Santos, L. P., Pastor, J. M., Ferreira, N. G., Costa, W. M., 
Araújo‐Castro, C. M., & Santos, P. J. (2006). Developing the harpacticoid copepod Tisbe biminiens
is culture: testing for salinity tolerance, ration levels, presence of se
diment and density dependent analyses. A
quaculture Research, 37(15), 1516-1523. Souza-Santos, L. P., Regis, C. G., Mél
o, R. C., & Cavalli, R. O. (2013). Prey selection of juvenile seahorse Hippocampus reidi. Aquacu
lture, 404, 35-40. Støttrup, J. G., & Norsker, N. H.
 (1997). Production and use of copepods in marine fish larviculture. Aquaculture, 155(1
-4), 231-247. Støttrup, J. G. (2000). The elusive copepods: 
their production and suitability in marine aquaculture. Aquaculture Research, 31(
8‐9), 703-711. Willadino, L., Souza-Santos, L. P., Mélo, R
. C., Brito, A. P., Barros, N. C., Araújo-Castro, C. M., ... & Cavall
i, R. O. (2012). Ingestion rate, survival and growth of newly released seahorse Hippoca
mpus reidi fed exclusively on
 cultured live food items. Aquaculture, 360, 10-16.
Santuario Nuestra Señora de l
as Lajas Church history from Viva Travel One 
day in 1750 (more or less), María Mueses d
e Quiñónez was walking from Potosí to Ipiales. Upon her
 back she carried her young, deaf-mute daughter Rosa. They decided to rest at Past
arán cave on the banks of the Río 
Guáitra. When doña María awoke from a nap, she discovered her daughter had wandered 
off. Upon finding her, Rosa said, “Mamacita, the Mestiza called to me!” She pointed to 
an image of a woman holding a child and two men. Thus begins the story of Santuario Nuestra Señora 
de las Lajas.A small adobe chapel was buil
t to protect the image of the Virgin in the shallow cave, forming t
he “altar screen” of the temple. Over the centuries it expanded to the i
mpressive neo-Gothic structure that now spans the Guáitra River. Many Colombians 
and Ecuadorians make the pilgrimage to this site, beseeching the Virg
in Mary for her intercession. The cliff walls are covered with thousands of plaques thanking her 
for miracles. (The Vatican only recognizes one.)
The hen harrier in England could soon become extinct, with its survival haging 
by athread, warn conservationists. Figures show just seven pairs of the bird of 
prey had nested successfully this year. Accor
ding to an annual survey, only 12 pairs attempte
d to nest, while the num
ber of pairs successfully raising chicks to fled
ging, seven, was just one more than last year. Three years ago, the number wa
s 14. The Royal Society for the Pr
otection of Birds calculates there is sufficient habit
at for 300 pairs in England, but that per
secution of hen harriers remains "devastatingly common" des
pite the birds having full legal protection. Of the succ
essful pairs, five nested on the United Utilities estate in the Forest of Bowland in 
Lancashire, the remaining stronghold of the bird in England. Dr
 Mark Avery, the society's 
director of conservation, said: "Persecut
ion, associated with land managed for driven-grouse shooting, remains the main reason for t
he hundreds of missing pairs. "Even though these 
birds now have the full protection of the law, the persecution of birds of pr
ey remains devastatingly common."
 And he said: "Now that the future of the hen har
rier in England hangs by a thread, we 
now need to consider all measures necessary to prevent the extinction of this bir
d in our uplands." Hen harriers
 come into conflict with upland grouse shoots as
 they eat the game birds. The RSPB 
is calling on the Government
 to address the problem of illegal
 persecution, and as a first step wants the coalition t
o confirm that the future of t
he National Wildlife Crime Unit is secure. Dr Avery said
: "It is shocking that protected birds of prey are still being killed illegall
y in the UK. "In this International Year of Biodiversity, we challenge the coalition g
overnment to provide the leadership and political will ne
cessary to address the problem and 
reiterate our challenge to moorland owners and managers to allow hen harriers to settl
e and breed."
The Speech: The Story Behind Dr. Martin Luther King Jr
.’s Dream Monday, November 18, 2013 - 7:00pm Please join us at Shepherd University for a lecture
 and discussion by Gary Younge on the topi
c of the American values and ideals given expression in
 the famous "I Have a Dream" speech of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., drawing on the subjec
t of his most recent book, The Speech: The Story behind Dr. Martin Luthe
r King Jr.’s Dream (2013). Sponsored by The George Washington Institute of Living Ethics * * * It 
was a sweltering eighty-seven degrees when Martin Luther King
 Jr. took the stage at the Linco
ln Memorial in 1963. He was the final speaker after 
a long day. The crowd, which numbered in the tens of thousands, had begun to leave. King took a deep
 breath and threw back his shoulders. ‘I say to you today, my friends, so even th
ough we face the difficulties of today and tomorrow, I still ha
ve a dream.'—From th
e Introduction Martin Luther King Jr. delivered his powerful “I Have a 
Dream Speech” on August 28, 1963. Fifty years later, the speech endures as a defin
ing moment in the civil rights
 movement. It continues to be heralded 
as a beacon in the ongoing struggle for racial equa
lity. This gripping book unearths the f
ascinating chronicle behind “The Speech” and the revealing events surrounding the 
March on Washington.
From ABC News' Chief Medical Editor Dr. Timothy Johnson: To
day's issue of the Journal of the American Medical Association (
JAMA) contains two articles ? and an excellent editorial 
? addressing the question of whether the benefits of the Gardasil vaccine outweigh its risks
. The vaccine is designed to prevent infection by two strains of the HPV (Human Papill
oma Virus); these strains are said to account for about 70% of cervical cancer cases. Th
e vaccine is now recommended for 11-12 year old girls before they b
ecome sexually active. For the first time in my career, I cannot recommend a vaccine for
 its intended population ? in this case, young girls. Therefore 
I am going to say that any parent consid
ering this vaccine for their daughter should read the 
editorial in JAMA and then talk to their doctor before deciding. "The theory behind the vac
cine is sound: If HP
V infection can be prevented, cancer wil
l not occur. But in practice, the issue is more complex. First, there are more than 
100 different types of 
HPV and at least 15 of them are oncogeni
c. The current vaccines target only 2 oncongenic strains: HPV-16 and HPV-18. Second, the re
lationship between infection at a young age and development of cancer 20 to 40 years
 later is not known. HPV is the most prevalent sexually t
ransmitted infection, with an estimated 79% infection rate over a lifetime. The viru
s does not appear to be very harmful because almost all HPV infections are clea
red by the immune system. In a few women, infection persists and some wom
en may develop precancerous c
ervical lesions and eventually cervical cancer. It is cu
rrently impossible to predict in which women this will occur and why. Likewise,
 it is impossible to 
predict exactly what effect vaccination of young girl
s and women will have on the incidence of cervical cancer 20 to 40 years from now. T
he true effect of th
e vaccine can be determined only through clinical trials and l
ong-term follow-up."
Know more about the Product Di
gital Thermometer. Therm
ometers are probably one
 of the most important tools in cooking and baking. In restaurants, fine dinings, or a pa
stry shop, cooks and bakers 
are alike. For them to be able to cook or bake probably, they must know the cur
rent temperature of the food or liquid substance that they are about to u
se or serve. - Measuring Range -58F- 572F 
(-50C- 300C) - Display Resolution +-0.1 - Measuring Accuracy +-1 degree at te
mperature from -4F- 392F (-20C- 200C). +-2 degrees at other temperatures - Talking and LED ni
ght function - Auto Shut Off - Reads Temperature
 in 4 Seconds - Talking and LED Display: - A tool that can broadcast th
e current temperature of your food to voice. - LED lit display. - Fast R
eading Thermometer: - Reads temperature in 4 seconds. - Au
to shut off function. - The temperature can be viewed at Fahrenhe
it or Celsius. - Wide Temperature Range: - Measuring 
Range from -58F TO 572F (-50C- 300C). - With just +/- 1
 degree deviation at temperatures from 4F- 392F (20C- 200C) - +-2 degrees at 
other temperatures Digital Instant Read Thermometer If you’re
 into cooking or baking or both, there’s a hig
h possibility that you have used a traditional temperature meas
uring tools such as the classic cooking t
hermometer. These classi
c temperature measuring tools usually take about
 20 to 30 seconds of holding 
it steady to get the ri
ght temperature of either your food or a liquid substance. With the Surround
 Point Digital Thermometer, you can get an almost 100% accurate temperature reading in just 4 second
s with +/- 1-degree deviation at temperatures from 4F- 392F (20C- 200C). It’s quite e
asy to use too. With its long stainless steel sharp probe, you
 can easily slide it into any kind of meat. This digital
 temperature measuring tool also comes with a speaker that tells you the
 temperature reading. Making it an ideal cook tool 
thermometer for people who are vi
sually impaired. Furthermore, its small compact and user-friendly design make i
t a space-saving tool and operatable by anyone. Other Ideal Us
es This tool is also grea
t for other uses. Keep your chocolate
 fondue melted and delicious at the right temperatu
re with this tool. Furthermore, make pastries or desser
ts without compromising the taste because of temperature misreading. Setting The Right Temperature F
or Baby Bath We all know tha
t bathing babies are not like any
 ordinary bath. Babies are sensitive to
 temperatures, they have a lot of difficulties regulating the
ir base temperature, which is around 37°- 37.5°C. They are 
very sensitive to variations in 
temperature, whether cold or hot. That is why it’s important to make sure that their bath time 
will be comfortable for them. With this tool, you can easily make sure that the bathwater is comfor
tably warm but not hot before putting yo
ur baby in. Water that’s warmed to about 37 degrees C (98.6 degrees F
) is just right. Our Verdict – Surround Point
 Digital Thermometer Overall, the Surround Point Digital Therm
ometer is a great tool for measuring tempera
ture as fast as possible without compromising accurac
y and precision. What makes this tool great is its 
fast temperature reading, its capable of telling you the temperature via display or 
voice, and its compact and user-friendly desi
gn. However, the downside of this tool is the use of batter. Unlike traditional thermo
meters that work without the need for electricity
 or battery, this therm
ometer requires a battery to operate. It’s also not waterproof so that’s one thing to
 note of when using this tool. You can also try ThermoPro TP20 Wireless 
Remote Digital Cooking Food Meat Thermometer it has features of probe and wire can withst
and up to 716°F (380°C), timer and temperature settings, and splash-proof receiver.
- What is Flooding in Great Britain? - How Floods in Gr
eat Britain Affect People, Wi
ldlife and the Environment - Navigating Flooding in Great Britain Step-by-Step: W
hat You Need to Know Today - Frequently Asked Questions A
bout Flooding in Great Britain: Your Ultimate Guide - T
op 5 Facts You Should Know About Flooding in Great Britain -
 Human Intervention and Climate Change: Examining the Cause
s of Frequent Flooding in Great Britain - Dealing with the Aftermath 
of Flooding in Great Britain: Recovery, Aid and 
Support Services Available - Table with useful data: - Information from an Expert - Historical
 fact: What is Flooding in Great Britain? Flooding i
n great britain is an event where water overflows onto land that is n
ormally dry causing damage to property, infrastructure and sometimes
 loss of life. Areas vulnerable to flooding include low-lying regions surrounding rive
rs, coasts or areas without adequate drainage systems. Some must-know facts about 
flooding in Great Britain are: 1. The UK has a l
ong history of experiencing some of the most severe floods with almost 5 
million people living at risk of flooding. 2. Climate ch
ange and increased rainfa
ll intensity have led exp
erts to predict that flood risks may increase further across many parts of the country. 3. Floo
d warnings can be issued by the Environment Agency who monitor river levels regularly through gauge
s installed at various locations throughou
t the UK coastline. Using a paragraph works well for this featured snippet 
as it succinctly summarizes what flooding in Great Britain means while also prov
iding vital information 
on why and how it happens. Adding specific data such as those provided creates m
ore interest around its effect giving audiences looking for general Information reason not 
just awareness but also perspe
ctives they probably haven’t thought about bef
ore concerning severe weat
her patterns like these one resulting from climate change . How Floods in 
Great Britain Affect People, Wildlife and the Environment Floods are natu
ral disasters that impact not only people but also the environment and wildlife. The United Ki
ngdom, specifically Great Britain, has been no s
tranger to floods in recent years. These catastro
phic events have disrupted life for both humans and animals alike, a
nd have caused significant damage to the natu
ral ecosystem. Firstly, let’s start with how floods 
affect people in Great Britain. Whether it b
e homes, businesses or infrastructure; flooding can cause a great deal of
 destruction leading to f
inancial as well as emotional loss for those affected by it. Homes get submerged
 underwater leading to dampness which causes mold growth and other health hazards impacti
ng individuals living there long-term resu
lting in either an expensive renovation process or moving o
ut altogether. Flooded roads lead to traffic chaos 
causing inconvenience leaving travelers stranded without any means of transportati
on which may result in delayed work or school commitments affecting them indirectly too. Not o
nly does this disrupt daily lives but also tourism is negativel
y impacted due to closed attractions during the high season making an adverse economic
 effect on small towns dependent upon 
tourist trade. Furthermore, food suppli
ers lose crops resulting fro
m excess water that impacts agricultural production posing 
further problems both for farm
ers and citizens’ nutrition supply chain. Now let’s discuss how flood aff
ects Wildlife: When extreme weather conditions amplify such calamities like overflow
ing rivers habitats are destroyed forcin
g land-based species most at risk including deer populations seeking safety while drowning 
risks aquatic inhabit
ants like fish who need a specific level o
f oxygen concentration within the
ir habitat force them to shift location sometimes triggering migrating movements threatening some
 delicate ecosystems’ survival dependant primarily on balance stimulating dangerous advantages
 through predators being driven outside their usual hunting ground. Furt
hermore, floods prompt soil erosion wea
kening many indigenous trees whose roots corrode as th
ey cannot access adequate support required under more stable soil-less entren
chment risking extinction of certain 
animal species suffering from scarce breeding opportunities along with limited shelter in
volving death rates piling up- thus slow-paced repopulation difficult giv
en less opportunity area available following rampant flooding repercussions. F
inally, let’s consider how floods impact the environment: The aftermath of a f
lood event can have long-term effects on environmental health. Water poll
ution levels rise due to an influx of industrial and agricultural waste products unable
 to be processed by sewage systems leading to u
nsanitary conditions
-and requiring consolidation into suitable tech hence becom
ing more environmentally friendly for future
 use. This impacts aquatic biodiversity, flora communities and discharges 
toxins causing mishaps in humans suffering from deadly diseases ultimately impacting ov
erall ecosystems’ deli
cate balance which may lead some species susceptible intolerable exposure living w
ithin such contaminated waters. Additionally, prevailing flood disruptions increase greenhouse gase
s forcing several countries including
 GBR looking at innovation renewable energy options as natu
ral resources slowly erode making most vulnerable threatened by climate change me
asurements noted globally prompting aggressive green-
tech opportunities with alternative sources powering rural towns lacking power lines exponentially 
increasing safety measures through
 clean-energy adaptation suggesting realizations following 
concerning matters about global warming disrupting otherwise balanced ecolo
gy surrounding Great Britain- highlighting moving towards sustainable solutions becomes par
amount importance soon rather th
an later! In conclusion, Floods significantly impact people’s livelihoods; animals l
ose habitat diversity whilst ecosystems suffer 
under pollution damaging all species’ viability consequently evolved 
over many years sustaining healthy practices. Therefore emphasis upon working together urgently woul
d afford feasible innovations creating higher community cont
inuity prosperity supporting more dignified approaches un
doubtedly vital stepping stones securing prosperous earth awaiting man
kind boldly taking modern trends advancing evolution 
forward! Navigating Flooding in Great Britain Step-by-Step: What You Need to Know
 Today Flooding has become increasingly common in Great Britai
n with climate change an
d a rapidly growing population. The effects of flooding can be dev
astating, from loss of life to property damage and disruption of daily activities. 
However, navigating flooding doesn’t need to feel overwhelming or chaotic. There are plenty of 
steps you can take today to mitigate the impact of floods. Secondly, you should con
sider safeguarding your home before a flood occurs. This could include installing 
water-resistant doors and windows whic
h minimise the amount of water entering a building during a flood 
plus making use sandbags around doors that migh
t let crawl spaces fill up 
quickly with water etc. If you live in an area prone to frequent flooding, it’s worth i
nvesting in flood insurance policy which ensures compensation if any destruction is caused due t
o unforeseen circumstances. Always make 
sure that your possessions an
d valuables are properly insured too!. Thirdly, create an emergency kit 
made up survival supplies including high nutrition food items stored safely away from potenti
al Flooding Areas thus allowing easy access provided this package includes basic medical ne
cessities like band-aids 
Gauze And alcohol wipes along with other essential day-to-d
ay essentials like phone c
hargers and batteries Fourthly, know evacuation routes out of danger zones especially flash-
flood-prone areas while re
cording key contacts related organisations i.e government age
ncies as well as family members who may aid rescue operations 
all Furthermore so always be vigilant since Floods occur at irregular times – not just a
fter rainstorms! Finally note: It’s also advisable never drive 
through flooded roads since visibility isn
’t perfect in them causing even minor pools filled by heavy rains full setbacks once vehicles 
submerge – this could put yours-mine-ours liv
es at higher risk! In conclusion, with good planning and foresight, navi
gating flooding in Great Britain doesn’t have to be a difficult task filled with overwhelming pani
c and confusion. By taking practical measures such as stayin
g informed about flood warnings is
sued by relevant authorities or safeguarding your property against the 
worst-case scenario floods you can effec
tively manage potential disaster situations. After all – prepa
ration is key when it comes down to safeguarding 
resources , valuables && human live
s alike ensuring survival during inevitable natural disasters like flooding tha
t occur worldwide regularly. Frequentl
y Asked Questions About Floodin
g in Great Britain: Your Ultimate Guide Flooding in Great Britain c
an be a major concern for many people, particularly during the winter
 months when heavy rainfall and snowmelt can cause rivers t
o overflow their banks. Given the increased frequency of severe weather events attributed t
o global warming, it’s important to educate y
ourself about flooding should you find 
yourself at risk. In this ultimate guide, we’re going to answer some freq
uently asked questions about flooding in Great Britain so that you stay safe and well-informed! 
Q: What is flooding? Flooding occurs when water overflows onto land that is usually dry. Th
is can happen when t
here has been heavy ra
in or fast melting snow which cau
ses rivers, lakes or other bodies of water to rise abov
e their normal levels. Flooding can also occur as a result of human activities such as blockin
g natural drainage paths with buildings, roads or litter. Q: How common is floodi
ng in Great Britain? Great Britain experiences frequent episodes of flood
ing due to its geography and climate. Winter storms o
ften bring extreme weather conditions cau
sing widespread damage across large areas from Scotland down through England’
s West Country and Wales. 
Q: Where are the most flood-prone areas in Great Britain? The Environment Ag
ency specifies more 
than 5 million homes
 and businesses are situate
d within postcodes deemed ‘high-ris
k’: on top of that 3 m
illion more properties are expecte
d to come under threat with the upc
oming decade if urgent action isn’t taken agai
nst Climate Change–so no one area stands out above another 
although low-lying river valleys tend overall have higher exposure 
compared with upland landscapes where morphologies would naturally discourage settlement. Q: Can I p
rotect my property from flooding?
 There are several steps you can take before floods arrive: -Investing into f
lood barriers Make sure vulnerable o
bjects like power sockets and carp
ets aren’t too close to floors prone suddenly arriving right inside your house; try
 taking less irreplaceable items upstairs first followed by heavier appliances 
then abandoning your gas 
and electric supplies. 
It’s also wise keep foodstuffs out of lower cupboa
rds or you run the risk of cross-contaminating produce. Q: What should I 
do during a flood? It’s important not to panic, but have an emergency plan in place befor
e floods arrive so that everyone knows what they need if disaster strikes! If it’s
 safe to do so, move valuable items upstairs or take them with you when evacuating
 your home/family vehicle away from waterlogged danger zones–make sure gas/electric serv
ices are switched off 
first though! Most importantly, stay tuned into any updates from emergency
 situations happening real-time information via established regional news outlets-
 likely repeated on social media; local authorities’ acco
unts on Facebook/Twitt
er will provide options for f
orce assistance. A quick recap: Flooding can deva
state lives and livelihoods alike as well as
 cause distressing upheavals within neighbourhood areas. So w
e know preventing flooding is
 unlikely under circum
stances where nature collides with anthropocentric factors. Preparedness may lessen neg
ative effects. Keep track of weather
 advisory alerts and educate you
rself properly in how best to react- this way there’ll be less uncertainty when those warnings
 ring true.. The next time there is severe weather head
ing our way, make sure you’re prepared! Stay vigi
lant folks! Top 5 Facts You Should Know About Flooding in Great Britai
n Flooding in Great Britain is a serious issue that should not
 be taken lightly. Every year, numerous parts of the country exp
erience devastating effects due to excessive rainfall, tidal surges or any other factors which ma
y cause water levels to 
rise beyond their capacity. Here are 5 sign
ificant facts you need to know
 about flooding in Great Britain: 1. Flooding has become more frequent and severe: 
Climate change is one of the biggest reasons behind the 
increased frequency and severity of floods i
n Great Britain. With climate reports suggesting increases
 in heavy rainfall over certain regions, it’s n
o wonder why we see news
 headlines warning re
sidents about potential fl
ood threats on an almost weekly basis. 2. The economic 
impact can be colossal: Aside from causing person
al devastation for those dir
ectly affected by flood
s, they can also have a huge impact on local businesses and economies as well. Insurance premiums 
skyrocket following every major floodi
ng event; roads and infrastructure are damaged leading to cost
ly repairs, and tourism indust
ries often suffer severely. 3. Your home insurance policy does not necessarily cover flood damag
e: Many homeowners falsely believe that their regular home insurance policies 
provide sufficient coverage against flood damages but this isn’t always true. Spec
ialised “flood insurance” must typically be purchased separately o
r bundled into your existing plan at an addition
al cost if you want comprehensive protection against potential wate
r-related disasters within your property. 4. You don’t need to l
ive near a river or coastline to be at risk: Although many image floods being cau
sed only by rivers bursting their banks or coastal areas being battered by st
ormy seas, flooding can happen anywhere – even miles away from any body of wate
r! Blocked drainage systems (caused by littering habits) faulty 
plumbing installations could result in water damage owing tens thousands pound
s worth repair costs if
 left unattended – so keep drains clear! 5.Responding promptly through Flood War
nings saves lives: Monitoring updates issued via government channels such as social media
 platforms will help you to prepa
re and act accordingly in the event of a potential flood, from how t
o safely protect yourself during the emergency through life-saving steps you can 
take immediately until rescue mission team arrives. Speed may truly be critical as eve
n water levels that appear harmless at first glance could suddenly bec
ome dangerously high in mere seconds. In conclusion, being aware a
bout flooding situation
s around Great Britain will help you to 
plan ahead – which is always beneficial regardless 
if it spells security against yo
ur property or your personal safety & those among whom you love
. Keep track of the latest communications by following credible sources but remember: better
 preparedness provides optimum
 defence! Human Inte
rvention and Climate Change: Examining the Causes of Frequent F
looding in Great Britain Climate change, as a result of human interve
ntion, has been responsible for numerous natural disasters across t
he world. In recent times, Great Britain has exper
ienced an increase in flood
ing incidents which have left many people wonderi
ng about the causes of these occurrences.
 Human action such as deforestation and indu
strialization contribute greatly to climate 
change resulting in warmer ocean temperatures that have caused widespread flooding. The increased
 frequency of hurricanes and typhoons are one of their products leading humanity towards unima
ginable floods. Furthermore, modern-day settlements are located o
n floodplains or coastal areas without due consideration given to risks posed by 
rising sea levels or water catchment systems built around them specificall
y because urban development is necessary c
onsidering population growth trends within the UK’s territory over de
cades. This disregard for nature’s inherent cycles leads us towards this unn
atural flooding surge happening now. Another common cause of frequent
 floods in Great Britain is poor drainage infrastructure – our undersized drainage cha
nnels cannot cope with heavy rainf
all patterns throughout different parts hence increasing the likelihood of fla
sh flooding especially if other preventative meas
ures aren’t deployed beforehand at vulnera
ble regions including low-lying terrains near flowing river
s rushing through cities/muni
cipal centres alike. In addition, there may be some i
mmediate contributions from anthropogenic factors; waste materials deposite
d carelessly like plast
ic bottles widely found outside our homes gradually find their way into gutters blockin
g flood drains which pose major setbacks during times already 
ravaged by overflowing 
streams/rivers until respective agencies complete long-term cleanup drives maybe weeks after all da
mages incurred per region/situation It’s important therefo
re not just to make bold statements calling out effects but also acknowledging intention
al/harmful actions by humans ourselves that ultima
tely lead us onto unforeseen routes d
irectly threatening life support systems & 
properties in general even though we possess knowledge enabling management/prevention me
chanisms/actions against avoidable loss upon them happening. To summarize, although it would 
be impossible to eliminate any chance of natural phenomena like dry spells resulting in 
droughts or intense precipitation leading
 to floods, we can keep man-made interferences to a minimum by recognizing
 these all-important factors in o
rder to limit our impact. By acknowledging th
e causes of frequent flooding in Great Britain and taking appropriat
e action where necessa
ry, we can create a safer environment for ourselves, our loved ones and flora/fauna that depend on
 this rich ecosystem supporting us daily as partakers within it. Dealing 
with the Aftermath of Flooding in Great Britain: Recovery, Aid and Support Services Available Flo
ods are becoming increasingl
y common in Great Britain as 
the country experiences periods of intense
 rainfall and unpredictable we
ather patterns. This can leave many people with a sense of vulnerabili
ty, stress and despair as their homes become submerged under water. But don’t wor
ry – help is at hand! There are numerous recovery, aid and suppor
t services available to those affected by flooding. One of the first thing
s you should do if your home has been flooded is contact your insurer or broker. Most insurance poli
cies cover flood damage but it’s essential that you ch
eck this out in order to take advantage of the coverage afforded by your policy. In addition to insu
rance providers, there are vari
ous charities providing aid for vict
ims of flooding such as The British Red Cross and The Salvation Army. Both organisations offer p
ractical assistance along with
 emotional support during these difficult times. Furthermore
, local authorities also provide information and resources for individuals who have been impa
cted by floods. Informational leaflets regarding flood prevention techni
ques as well as cleanup op
erations provides some much-needed guidance on how affected persons c
an be better prepared next time around (fingers crossed!). If you’re struggling with
 repairing damage caused by floods then government grants may be wor
th exploring. Depending upon individual circumstances homeowners may qualify for funding tow
ards repair costs from central government funds administered via Local Authorities across Great 
Britain. It’s just n
ot humans suffering losse
s due to frequent flooding – our cute animal frie
nds often get caught up too! RSPCA offers 24 hour advice lines during natural disasters aiming a
t supervising animal welfare in disaster-hit regions throughout UK including rescu
ing distressed pets/animals f wild s
pecies without owners present! On top of all t
hese different supports those still looking for further assistance might want to look
 into available volunteer opportunities wherein they could make a real difference at least margina
lly mitigating threats posed 
my worsening environmental calamities plaguing UK! When coping wi
th post-flood trauma one shouldn’t shy away from seeking professio
nal help.. Here therapists/counsellors play a pivotal role lending patients years of valuable expe
rience to aid recovery from emotional stress. Finally, various online resources offer s
upport services such as discussion boards fo
r those affected and links to relev
ant emergency departments offering immediate relief. We h
ope our brief overview helps you navigate through this difficult time – the bottom line? Don’
t lose hope! Help is available if needed! Table with useful data: |Year||Num
ber of Floods||Worst Affected Areas||Estimated Cost| |2019||34||Derbyshire, York
shire, Lincolnshire, Nottinghamshire, Glo
ucestershire||£110 million| |2018||98||Cumbria, Lancashire, Herefordshir
e, Worcestershire, Suffolk||£1.2 billion| |2017||46||Lincolnshire, Yorkshire
, Norfolk, Suffolk||£0.6 billion| |2016||62||Cumbria, Northumberland, Lancashire, Yor
kshire||£1.3 billion| Information from an 
Expert As an expert in the field of flooding,
 I can attest to the fact that Great Britain has seen a rise in flood incidents over recen
t years. The causes are multifaceted a
nd include increased urbanization, climate change and more extr
eme weather events. It’
s essential for individuals and communities to take steps towards flood prevention such
 as investing in appropriate inf
rastructure or taking measures like planting trees which absorb water. Adapting to changes broug
ht about by these challenges is critical, and only through concerted efforts c
an we hope to mitigate this growing problem facing many regio
ns throughout the UK. From 1607 to
 1930, Great Britain experienced several devastating flo
ods that caused significant damage and loss of life. The most severe of these occurre
d in January 1607 when floodwaters swept across the Bri
stol Channel and killed an estimated 2,000 people.
Stabilize and restore the landscape and community following a wildfire even
t. Post-fire recovery efforts can affect susceptibility. Explore your community’s ri
sk. About Post-Fire Recovery It can take months and even years to recove
r from the emotional, financial, and ecological impacts of a wildfire. The healing process for a com
munity requires extensive resources and support. Landscape stabilization and rebuilding hom
es and communities followi
ng a wildfire can be stressful and overwhelm
ing. While immediate action is 
needed to address landscape rehabilitation, infrastructure
 repairs, post-fire flooding mitigatio
n, and neighborhood restoration, long-term care is required to ensure personal well
-being, financial stability, community heal
th, and a renewed sense of place. Pre-
fire mitigation steps—such as wildfire p
reparedness, home hardening, land use planning, and addressing commu
nity health and safety—can reduce the work required to recover post-fire.
 After the Fire: Resources for Recovery The Natural Resources 
Conservation Service is available to assist with site specific q
uestions and provide technical assistance for landowners as they begi
n to restore the landsc
ape following a fire. In addition, there may be financial assistance available through regular En
vironmental Quality Incentives Progr
am or special state initiatives to help address resource concerns on private and trib
al land. After the Flames After the Flames is a curated list
 of post-fire recovery and 
restoration information. The resources are useful for communities as they work to establish plans an
d priorities that protect citizens, homes, essential infrastructure, and res
ources from the destruction that occurs after a catastrophic wildfi
re. After the Flames is an initiative of Coalitions and Collabo
ratives, Inc. (COCO). AIM: Action, Implementation & Mitigation The Action, Implementati
on, and Mitigation Program (AIM) seeks to increase local capacity and sup
port for wildfire risk reduction activities in high risk c
ommunities. Selected particip
ants in AIM will receive technical and financial support and become affiliate
 members of Coalitions and Collaboratives, Inc. (COCO). Burned Area Emergency Response (BAER) Teams
 The BAER program is designed to address emergency stabilization issues related to
 wildland fire. The BAER teams perform
 emergency stabilization actions within one yea
r of wildfire containment. These 
actions are intended to stabilize and prevent unacceptable degradation to natural and cultural r
esources, minimize threats to life or property resu
lting from the effects of a fire,
 or to repair, replace, or construct physical impr
ovements necessary to prev
ent degradation of land or resources. Community Mitigation Assistance Team (CMAT) Community 
Mitigation Assistance Teams are a national interagency resource designed to work c
ollaboratively with local partners to build sustainable mitigation programs focuse
d on community fire adaptation actions 
on the ground. A CMAT works with communities at high risk of wildfire to analyze their mi
tigation programs and barriers, develop workable solutions to
 help move mitigation forward, share best mitig
ation practices for achieving outcomes, and build successful partnerships. FEMA Hazard Mit
igation Grant Program The Federal Emergen
cy Management Administration (FEMA) manages several grant opportunities for wildfire in their H
azard Mitigation Assistance program. The Hazard Mitigation Gran
t Program Post-Fire provides mitigation assistance for Fire Management Assistance decl
arations on or after October 5, 2018. Fire Adapted Communities L
earning Network The Fire Adapted Communities Learning Network connects and suppor
ts people and communities who are striving to live more safely with
 wildfire. The purpose of FAC Net is to exchange information, collabo
rate to enhance the practice of fire adapt
ation, and work together and at multiple scales to help communiti
es live safely with fire. This includes embra
cing resiliency concepts and taking action before, during and a
fter wildfires. They offer a Fire Adapted Communities Self-Asses
sment Tool (FAC SAT) to help communities assess their level of fire adaptation and track their 
capacity to live safely with
 fire over time NACo County Wildfire Playbook The National Assoc
iation of Counties (NACo) produced this county leadership guid
e to help communities become more fire adapted and learn to live with
 wildland fire. The playbook has been designed 
by county commissioners, for county commissioners,
 as they endeavor to fortify an
d protect communities from high severity impacts of wildland fire. Research & Science -
 After the Fire. Federal Emergency
 Management Agency. (2019). Emmitsburg, MD: U.S. Fire Administration. - Burned Area
 Emergency Response (BAER) Program. (n.d.). USDA Forest Service. - Recovering from the wildfires. 
(2020). American Psychological Association. - Wildfire recovery as a “hot mom
ent” for creating fire-adapted communities. Schumann RL, Mockrin M, Syphard A, Whittake
r J, Price O, Gaither C
J, Emrich CT, & Butsic V. (2020). International
 Journal of Disaster Risk Reduc
tion, 42. 101354. - Wil
dfire Recovery: Ways to Move Forward.
 (2006). Wildfire Recovery, 1(1). Corvallis, OR: Oregon Stat
e University Extension Service. Learn how 
these actions align with federal policies and initiatives.
This process involves primarily "white" fat
 found mainly in the fat cells that lie under our skin. This is our energy
, or calorie storage fat. The "brown" fat, or the "good" fat, actually
 burns calories for bo
dy heat. This fat is deeper and surrounds and prot
ects our organs. Normal fatty acid metabolism supports and nourishes the
 brown fat. The storage, or white, fat is where our body puts the extra calories from di
etary sources that we do not utilize
. When we diet regular
ly or our weight goes up and down, our internal weight control system fears starvati
on and will store more fat as energy for the future. With repeated 
weight loss and weight gain, the same number of calori
es in our diet may keep us at a higher weight because we have a higher set point.
 When we have developed more fat ce
lls during our growth periods (infancy and adolescence), we
 will tend to have more fat, a slower metabolism, and a h
igher set point, and we will be more likely to have a higher weight. Once this pa
ttern develops, such as by being overweight early in life, it is very hard t
o change. It takes work and a new self-image! Regular exercise and increasing e
xercise capacity are the main physical ways to improve the set point and lose weight and t
hen to be able to maintain our w
eight with a reasonable number of calorie
s. This is a far healthier approach 
than taking thyroid pills or one of the many possible diet stimulants. Other ideas about ind
ividual weight suggest two opposing
 views. One school says that people are thin because they do not overeat a
s much as fat people, since they are guided more by internal signals of hunger and the types o
f food that their bodies want. Overweight people on the other hand respon
d more to external signals, such as the presence of food or other people
 and social situations, or they may react 
more emotionally to the normal internal messages. Others believe that obes
e people do not really eat a great deal more than thin people
; they just have a different set point and a slower metabolic rate. Heredity 
and early conditioning play a major role here. Heavier people’s food choices may no
t be as wholesome as those of thin people, with h
igher-fat and higher-calorie foods pre
dominating. Malnutrition from nutrient deficiencies and food a
llergies can also be infl
uential. Obesity is really a com
bination of these many fact
ors. Of course, most of us 
know overweight people who eat a lot of food. Then again, we ma
y know overweight people who eat lightly, as well as trim people who can really put it a
way. Most overweight people, I believe, have overeaten at some point to develop their capacity for 
obesity, unless there is some hormonal imbalance, which is not very common. We need to start a
s early as possible to achieve dietary control. Children ne
ed both wholesome, nutriti
ous foods and loving guidance! Only about 10 percent of e
lementary school children are overweig
ht, yet between 20 and 30 percent of high schoolers are at least moderately obese. To lose weight 
and maintain it, behavior must change. Behavior modification i
s a form of therapy that can be effective in helping us 
change from an overweight person to a trimmer one. This can be practiced by ourselves
 or with the help of a close friend, spouse, or diet "budd
y," but a behavioral or other counselor can often assist with it. An important beginning is
 to try to get in touch with our level of hunger. Most "fat" people do not eat fro
m hunger; in fact, many
 rarely experience this natural guide to eating. Using an
 eating diary to evaluate what, when, and where we eat, how much, our level of hunger
, and what else we are doing at the time can be very revealing. An example o
f this form is found in Taking Charge of Your Weight and Well-Being by J
oyce Nash and Linda Ormiston (Bull Publishing Co., Palo Alto, CA., 1978). Keepi
ng such a diary for several w
eeks can help us to see more clearly 
our relationship to eating. We can then make a plan incorporating our new,
 positive habits and use new rules to change our behavior in weak areas. For example, if w
e snack while we make d
inner or pick at the leftovers in the kitchen, we can make a commitment to eat food only at the
 dining room table and allow no eating in the kitchen or when standing. It may be difficu
lt at first; constant awareness is needed. Behaviorists claim that it takes thre
e weeks to change a habit and create a new 
one, so keep at it. Part of our eating behavior is affec
ted by psychological aspects, suc
h as our self-image, relationships to family or partner, sexuality, 
and general stress. Often, counseling is important to help change behavior to me
et our dietary challenge. Successfully achieving a new w
eight means changing our di
et, not "going on a diet." When we return to our old, "normal" diet, we will create the same body 
we had before, and likely add another pound or three. First we change our die
t by substituting wholesome foods for the more high-calorie and chemical foods i
n the diet. Next, we work to create good habits. The following list offers some suggestions for be
havior patterns, food choices, and activities to help reach and maintain our optimum weight.
 Before beginning a new diet plan, a health evaluation may be important,
 especially for those with recent weight gain or s
ymptoms of medical problems. Before emb
arking on any low-calorie diets, we should have a complete exam, general biochemistry p
anel, and, if over 45, an electrocardiogram. A complete thy
roid hormone panel is often useful to rule out low thyroid function, which could be a cause of wei
ght gain or difficulty in losing weight. Blood fats, protein, potassium, and calcium levels are
 also important monitors in the process of weight loss. A positive 
side effect of diet change and weight loss is reduction of blood cholesterol and triglyce
rides and high blood pressure, yet also watchin
g for mineral depletions, particularly of potassium, is a good idea. A food allergy 
evaluation may be a valuable step on the path to a trim and healthier body. Many people hav
e internal reactions to foods, with increased immune response, cellular irritation, and many poss
ible symptoms. These can c
ause inflammatory acti
vity and water retention, as w
ell as poor utilization of ot
her foods. Currently, the best way to isolate problem foods is a blood test that 
measures levels of IgG an
tibodies to specific food antigens (the 
protein stimuli of the food). This reveals delayed or "hidden" food allergy or hypersensitiv
ity. Measuring IgE levels can determine foods causing more immediate reactions, such as h
ives, asthma, or eczema, though these reacti
ons are relatively uncommon, which is why skin tests, which measu
re the IgE reactions, are not very helpful. Cytotoxic testing, looking at cellular reacti
ons, is no longer used because interpretations of its results were too subjective. Antibody me
asurement is more reproducible.
 Testing food reactions ourselves by
 trying different foods in the diet and observing how we feel can be very useful for the astute 
person, but the reactions may involve other variables besides the foods. TV doctor Dean Edell 
feels that the best method is double-blind testing—g
iving patients encapsulated dried foods as well as placebos, withou
t the patient or tester knowing which is which, or even what food is being tested. This 
is a good method, but it is time consuming, and it assumes that foo
d reactions occur so dramatically and immediately that people can b
e aware of them. Some reactions do happen at once, but many are more subtle and occur 12–24 h
ours later. Avoiding the causes of these quieter internal reactions contributes to the body’s f
ine-tuning and makes weight l
oss easier. Food allergy testing followed by a rotation diet avoiding the reacti
ve foods plays an es
sential part in reaching and maintaining optimum weight and health (see mor
e in the Allergy program in this chapter). Several possible diets can be used as long-term
 plans for people who have problems maintaining their optimum weight. These are all g
enerally healthier diets than those of the general population. There are literally thousands 
of quick-weight-loss, low
-calorie, nutrient-deficient diets available to consumers. That is n
ot what we are looking for to achieve our goals. I do not usually recommend 
fasting for weight loss, but if someone wants to lose
 a quick five to ten pounds in a short period
 of time, I will work with them, after an evaluation, wi
th the overall intention of using that period to create a new eating plan to b
e used when the fast is over. Fasting is very va
luable at increasing food awareness and sensitivity to both bad and good f
oods and eliminating addictive food and eating patterns, so that people can come back to eatin
g with new enthusiasm and attention. A one-day-a-week fast on water or juices can
 be a valuable tool for many people who want to lose or maintain weight as
 it reemphasizes the importance of food choices and food awareness. 
Behavior Patterns for Optimum Weight - Focus on decreasing calori
c intake and increasing calories out (exercise). - Eat most foods early in the day for b
est utilization of calories. - Drink eight to t
en glasses of water daily, bu
t not with meals. - Drink two glasse
s of water 30 minutes before meals to reduce appetite. - Eat lots of fruits and vegetables—as snac
ks, too. - Walk a lot and exercise regularly. - Av
oid fats in the diet—t
hey are more caloric. - Use only low-fat or nonfat milk products. - Minimize sal
ad dressings, cream soup, and meats. - Lessen or avoid alcohol and c
affeine; minimize salt intake. - Rotate foods—eat a variety; iso
late allergenic foods and avoid them. - Practice food combining. - See a nutritionist to help w
ith the eating plan or for food-habit co
unseling. - Use smaller plate and portions. - Fi
ll up first on lower calorie foods, such as soups or vegetable. - Avoid high-
calories snacks and desserts. - Wait 10–15 minutes before takin
g seconds—hunger will decrease. - At restaurant
s, avoid overeating and take any extra food 
home. - Take at least 20–30 minutes to eat
 a meal, even snacks. - Eat at only one or two places in the home.
 - Sit and relax before eating. - Avoid ea
ting while watching TV, driving, or doing other things. - Shop for food onl
y after eating, not when hungry. - Create a schedule for eating. - Plan meals and f
ood choices ahead, snacks included. - Carry food wi
th you to work or when going out so that you have the right choices. - Put snacks 
and sweet foods away at home. - Stay out of the
 kitchen, cupboard, and refrigerator unless pre
paring food. - Plan activities to occupy your free time when you might sna
ck. - Tell family and friends to support you and 
not push food. - If you blow it, go right back to your plan, and do not make it an excuse to ind
ulge. - Weigh yourself only once every week or two. - Learn about food, fats, calories, and so 
on , so you know what you are d
oing. - Keep a good self-image and positive attitude toward life. - Allow y
ourself to indulge (within reason) once weekly without guilt or self-judgement. - Realize that 
it is ultimately up to you. The essential aspects of a healthy weight-loss diet are lean protei
n (for example, fish an
d poultry), low fat, and lots of vegetables. High-fiber foods, with some complex 
carbohydrates, are also helpful, especially with an orientation to vegeta
bles and vegetable-protein combinations such as grains and legumes. Eating
 a variety of foods and rotating those foods every few days is important. Cold-
pressed vegetable oils are the main fats, with some l
ow-fat dairy products if tolerated. Saturated and hydrogenated fats
 are minimized. Refined
 sugar and flour foods, including baked goods, c
andy, sodas, and other sweets, are avoided. 
Alcohol is out, and caffeine is minimized. We need to drink lots of water in
stead to support normal weight and healthy skin and internal functi
ons. Meals are restructured to include a moderate breakfast, gre
at lunch, and light dinner. Snacks are low-calor
ie foods, such as fruits, vegetables, popcorn, or 
crackers. Overeating 
is prohibited. We must take breaks during big meals to let the 
body balance and let us know whether it needs more food. It usually does not; we real
ly require a lot less food than our overweight mind tells u
s. Our satiation meter needs to be turned down, and t
hat will take a golden key, which is not always easy to find. It may requir
e going through our 
past, our emotional and psychological barriers, to find our c
reative spark and drive to be our best se
lf and not let food interfere with thi
s path of power. It really takes responsibility and a commitment to our new body-to-be, 
and a knowledge and belief that we can do it. We need to think more about ea
ting to survive and feeding our body
 with the best possible fuel. Taking the time 
to eat, chewing each bite t
horoughly, is essential 
to short-term digestion and absorption and the 
long-term health of the whole digestive tract. Being aware 
of the process of eating and of what food is eaten is a mu
st.
State's eighth-graders nee
d to improve writing CALIFORNIA National testing of eighth-gra
ders finds just 25% in state perform
 at grade level Publishe
d 4:00 am, Friday, April 4, 2008 California's eighth-graders write well enough to convey infor
mation, but their words and sentence structures "are often simple and unvaried," according to the l
atest state-by-state writing test k
nown as the Nation's Report Card. Yet the simple and unvaried truth is that 13-yea
r-olds in nearly all states write in similarly bland fashion, labeled "sufficient."
 Results released Thursday by the U.S. De
partment of Education show that only one state - New Jersey - reached th
e "skillful" level, in 
which students routinely churn out clearly organized essays. No
 state reached the "excellent" level, where readers feel compelled to read to the e
nd. Within the national band of sufficient mediocrity, eighth-graders in California write 
less well than their peers, ranking 38th out of 47 states and jurisdictions that took part
 in the survey. That means j
ust 25 percent of the state's eighth-graders scored at grade level in writing, compared w
ith 56 percent in top-ranked New Jersey. 
LATEST SFGATE VIDEOS - Handout Video: Brushwood Estate Lake Tahoesfgate - How to st
ay safe around mountain lionssfgate - The Regulars: The Performersfgate - Charter bus ove
rturns on Hwy. 101 in SFsfgate - Fun facts about Bay Ar
ea celebritiessfgate - 
San Diego Fire Department's footage from the Lilac Firesfgate - Google Eart
h tour of San Franciscosfgate - Spiked Eggnog Custard With Rum-Caramel Popcornsfgate - W
hole Foods' first 365 store opens in the Bay Areasfgate - Sen. Al Franken announces his upcoming re
signation from the Senatesfgate The na
tional average was 31 percent writing at
 grade level. Mississippi posted the lowest scores, with 
15 percent scoring at grade level. Califo
rnia students have improved, however. The writing test was las
t administered in 2002, when 23 percent of the state's students 
scored at grade level. In 1998, 20 percent d
id as well. Depending on the year, the test is given to a sampling of students in grades 4, 8 
or 12 in a variety of subjects. State par
ticipation is voluntary. This writing t
est was administered in 2007 to 165,000 stud
ents nationwide in grades 8 and 12, with state resul
ts provided only for eighth-graders. Most educators take the Nation'
s Report Card seriously because it serves as a sort of academic Olympics in which states a
re pitted against each other, emerging as acad
emic stars or duds. But a frequent criticism is that the scoring is unfair because 
states with large numbers of English
 learners and low-income students - like California
 - are compared with sample groups that are primarily white and more affluent. On Thu
rsday, state Superintendent Jack O'Connell noted that California had more Engl
ish learners taking the test than any other state. He said that wh
en similar groups of students are stacked up against ea
ch other, California looks better. "It is of interest to n
ote that when compared to the nati
onal results, California's English learn
er population scored the same as English learners nationally, although the averag
e score for English learners fell far below their counterparts who are fluent i
n English," he said. Nearly hal
f of California student
s tested were Latino, compared
 with 19 percent nationwi
de. Just under a third were white, compared with 58 percent nationwide. About 12 percent were A
sian American, compared with 5 percent nationwide.
 And 7 percent were black, compared with 17 pe
rcent nationwide. -- To see the full report, go to 
links.sfgate.com/ZCXK.
Earth Day 2015 marks 45 years of celebrating this one of a kind planet that we call home. Start
ed in 1970, Earth Day organizations have spaw
ned both grass-roots movements as well as the EPA, or environmental protect
ion agency. Many laws that protec
t both the land and the wildlife we share this earth with have come from t
he EPA and related or
ganizations. And despite being in its 45th year, the purposes behind Earth day are more imp
ortant now than they ever were. Every year we have more tools with whi
ch to protect the earth and to decrease our carbon
 footprint. And every year we need to start creating new eco-frien
dly habits, and inspiring others to 
do the same. But don’t get daunted: you can take small steps that will lea
d to big changes down the road. Consider volu
nteering at a recycling center, or organizing a local recycl
ing drive. Or research the local addresses 
and phone numbers for recycling facilities, and what they offer, t
o share at school, work, and extra curricular activities. Even reusing scrap paper, biking or c
arpooling to work, and supporting e
co-friendly products helps. And be sure to share your tips and tricks with others. Because somet
imes the biggest thing holding people back from
 change is researching the who, what, when, where, and how. Even doing something as
 simple as wearing eco-green pins to spread th
e word and start conversations 
with people can help inspir
e change. PinMart has a
n entire line of pins that are made from recycled materials, and can be wor
n year round to remind others to do their
 part on Earth Day, and every day.
Guest Blog provided by UNH Cooperative Extension’s Education Center For many vegetable 
gardeners, peak harvest season has passed and we find ourselves solemnly imaginin
g how life will be without the option of harvesting fresh produce for our plates da
ily. Luckily there is s
till time to try seeding som
e cool season crops that can handle colder temperatures and actually taste better once c
ool weather arrives. To start with, you will want to make sure that your soil is well prepared a
nd free of large soil clods and
 rocks. Most greens seeds are small and won’t germinate as well in such conditions. Wh
ile working the soil, apply a balanced fertilizer to ensure that
 your greens are well-fed throughout remainder of the season. In certain soils that a
re very clumpy or tend to form a crust when dry, make a very small trench or de
pression just 1/8 inch deep. I generally use a board turned with a corner pointed down and pres
s lightly to make the depression. The end of a hoe handle can also 
be used to mark out the row and lea
ve the shallow trench. Seeding into this trench and covering with 
a fine seed starting mix or compost will ensure that germinating seedlings can easily pus
h up through the soil surface. A
nother good technique for sowing greens mixes is to simply take a metal garden rake, the
 one with the thick metal tee
th, and rake one direction across the bed down the entire leng
th. Do this only to a depth appropriate for the crops you are sow
ing, often only ¼ inch deep. This will make several of the shallow planting trenches
 to hold your seeds. Then broadcast your mix across the entire bed, scattering
 the seeds so that you have one land every inch or so. Next, simply rake very lightly
 across the bed again, but this time rake perpendicular to the direction you rak
ed before. This will cover the majority of your greens seeds with enough soil for 
good germination. That’s it. Water sufficiently to moisten the top inch of soil an
d seeding is complete. Once your greens are seeded, they absolutely must remain moist during th
e germination and establishment period
. A watering wand with a gentle shower setting is a good choice to avoid washi
ng soil and seeds out of the rows while watering. The firs
t two weeks from seeding through ge
rmination, emergence an
d early growth are critical where adequate moistu
re is concerned. Thin seedlings as ne
eded and keep weeds under control, especially early on as the greens become established
. What type of greens can be grown during the late summer, fall and into winter? A basic mesclun, o
r salad mix is a great choice. If you like a
 bit of a spicy bite in your mix, consider sowing mustards, arugul
a, mizuna and tatsoi. You can purchase pre-made mixes or create your own custom tail
ored to your own taste preferences. Some
 crops are hardier than others or simp
ly quicker to grow to a har
vestable size. The most
 reliable group includes spinach, baby kale, tatsoi and claytonia. Next would be arugula
, mizuna, cress and pac choi, followed by
 baby lettuces, baby Swiss chard and radishes. Planting calendars for winter h
arvest of these crops are avai
lable online, and the best of them take i
nto consideration the effect that shorter day
s have on plant growth rates. All of the crops listed in this article can be
 grown under protective covering such as a small hoop structure when seeded as late as the third ful
l week in September, while the hardiest options like spinach, baby kale tatsoi and claytonia coul
d be seeded up until mid-October. Of course, gardeners fa
rther north would need to plant on the ear
ly side for best results. One of the great things about growing greens late in the season is tha
t many of the pest and disease pressures that we deal with early in the season begin to lighten up.
 Additionally, the sunny days and cool night temperatures resu
lt in higher sugar levels in the plants, which means great flavor on the pla
te. Protect Your Plantings To really get the most out of y
our planting, you’ll need 
to use floating row covers to help protect your greens 
from cold temperatures, drying winds and early frosts. This lightweight sp
un-bonded fabric allows light, water and air to pass through it, but offers a few degrees 
of frost protection that c
ould result in a substantially extended harvest season. Floating row covers get th
eir name because they are actually used by some growers by just pulling them
 over the plants and allowin
g them to “float” or rest on top. During heavy frosts, the pla
nts can still get burnt where they are in contact with th
e fabric. To remedy this, use heavy gauge wire, pvc piping, or even meta
l conduit bent into the shape of an arch and placed every 4 to 5 feet down the bed. Essentially,
 you are making a tiny hoop house wit
h a protected microclimate
 inside. Consider using the heavier weight row covers, which are measured i
n ounces per square yard. Clear plastic can also be used for this purpose, but much greater care sho
uld be taken in managing ventilation to avoid buildu
p of excess heat and humidity. Adding a layer of clear plastic over the row co
ver after a few heavy frosts will provide additional protection and extend the harvest fur
ther yet. Experimenting with seeding dates, cro
p mixes and season ext
ension techniques can result
 is harvest well in to the fall 
and winter.
Only 10% of South African snakes are venomous (I am not sure of the proportion in other countries
), the younger snakes having a higher concentration of venom that the adult snakes. Snakes have
 either teeth or fangs. Fangs can either be found in the back o
f the mouth or in the front, and
 can either inject the venom into your skin or squirt it into y
our eyes. Problems that y
ou will face are: Can you identify the
 snake? Most people cannot. Is the snake venomous? This can only be known by the identity of the sna
ke. If the snake is venomous, what type of venom was injected into you? Once again, the identit
y of the snake will solve this one. How long will you live for?
 That depends on how old the snake was, how much venom was actually injected and t
he concentration of the venom. TYPES OF VENOMOUS SNAK
E BITES Cobras and Mambas inject Neurotoxic venom which will affect the nervous sy
stem and cause initial muscle weakness, blurr
ed vision, difficulty in swallowing and breathing and eventually paralysis. Adders 
inject Cytotoxic venom which will cause massive swelling and brui
sing to the area that was bitten, and could eventually burst the skin open. Boo
mslange and Vine Snakes inject 
Haemotoxic venom which destroys the platelets i
n the blood and causes major internal bleeding in the lungs, liver, kidneys, spleen etc., and bl
ood will also leak out of all orifices in your body
, including minor wounds and
 bruises. Berg Adders are highly dangerous as they inject both Ne
urotoxic and Cytotoxic venom into you. TREATMENT OF SNA
KE BITES What NOT to do: Do not p
anic and run around as this will increase the blood circulation and transport the venom
 quicker around the body. Do n
ot make a tourniquet (this means to tie a cloth tightly around the arm or leg) as this will kil
l the arm or leg below it and it might have to be amputated later, as 
well as concentrate the venom (if it was a v
enomous bite) in the area and kill that body part off quicker. Do not cut and try to suck 
out the venom as we see them do
 in cowboy movies, as the venom will still get absorbed into your
 blood stream through your gums and cheeks. What TO do: Do loo
sen the clothing, reassure the patient, and keep him calm and quiet. Do dress the woun
d with a bandage and keep it co
ol (in the shade). This will stop your blood vessels dilating and decrease the blood flow in tha
t area. Do watch the patient carefully, if he loses consciousn
ess, apply the ABC's (see below). The ABC's (these thr
ee things are useful to reme
mber in the majority of first aid situations)
: A = Airways, tilt his neck backwards to get the tongue away from the back of his throat and 
stop him from choking on it. Do not put a bla
nket or anything under his head. B = Breathing, look, listen and feel to check if he is
 still breathing. If he has stopped breathing, give him one breath every five s
econds. C = Circulation
, check his pulse in his neck, on either side o
f his windpipe, or listen for a heartbeat by putting
 your ear next to his chest. Once the situation h
as been assessed, then get help as quickly as possible. He would need to get to hospi
tal soon. In hospital, if the snake is unknown, they would treat the patient s
ymptomatically, that is, they would put him on a b
reathing machine if he stops breathing, give antibiotics if he shows
 signs of infection, etc. Most people that ge
t brought to hospital for snake bites, don't know much about the snake, so the practice of gi
ving the patient an anti
-venom is only done is certain cases. (Besides, anti-venom is only housed in Ca
pe Town and Pretoria, so anyone h
iking in the Drakensber
g - South Africa - and that gets bitten by a snake, will p
robably get brought to a Durban hospital, hence the symptomatic treatment wh
ich is given - this applies to South Afric
a). Short note about the author Gerald Crawford was born in South Africa, studie
d electronics, telecommunication, eco-travel and african trave
l concepts. He taught responsible tourism in South Af
rica. If you have any questio
ns or comments please e-mail me on. E-
mail Address: [email protected] Website Address: http://www.12234455.co.za.
Otto made his first public appearance a
s a representative of the House of Habsburg at the tender age of four, at the funer
al of his great-great-un
cle Emperor Franz Jose
ph in November 1916. The funeral procession was an impressive spectacle
 and remained engraved on
 the memory of many participants and onlookers. Th
e young Otto walked behind the catafalqu
e wearing a brilliant white tunic with a black sash which stood out again
st the sombre procession. As a symbol of innocence and new beginnings he attracted t
he sympathy of the crowd in a time of war-weariness and lack of hope. The child’s presence w
as a public relations coup, given that the dynasty no long
er enjoyed undivided support after the death of the aged em
peror. As a child Otto experienced the fruitless efforts of his parents to regain the 
power they had lost. Aged nine he witnessed his father’s death agony:
 Karl insisted that his son be present so t
hat he could see ‘how a Christian returns to his Creator’. As he was the eldest son, Otto was g
roomed to be his fat
her’s successor after the latter’s early death. From 
his earliest years he was brought up as the future head of the dynasty who might one d
ay regain the throne. Thus immediately after his father’s death 
Otto was addressed as Imperial Majesty, and those around him
 had to accord him every obeisance due to an emperor, despite the strait
ened circumstances they were living in. When Otto attained 
his majority in 1930, his mother put the politic
al legacy of his father into his hands and he was form
ally recognized as the head of the dynasty. This claim was also reflecte
d in his education: taught at first by private tutors, for the last few years of his 
schooling he attended the secondary school run by the Benedictine Abbey at Clairvaux in
 Luxemburg. Even his school leaving exams were co-o
pted as a declaration of his status: the former emp
eror’s son was examined by a panel of Austrian and Hunga
rian teachers in accordance with the reg
ulations that had pertained before 
1918. After this he began to study law and political science at 
the University of Leuven in Belgium, where he was matriculated under the 
pseudonym ‘Count of Bar’. The latter was one of the titles borne by the head of t
he Habsburg-Lorraine dynasty,
 and was also a clear
 reference to his Lotharingian roots. While spen
ding a term studying in Berlin in 1932
/33 he witnessed the National Socialist takeover of power on 31 January 1933 and left G
ermany immediately. In 1935 he complete
d his studies and received his doctorate in law. In 1936 he began to 
be active in the Pan-Europa mov
ement. This had been founded by the
 Bohemian aristocrat Count Richard Coudenho
ve-Kalergi with the aim of uniting Europe on the pri
nciples of democracy and Christian id
eals as a counterweight to the totalitarian tendencie
s of the chauvinist-nationalist 
and Communist factions. I
n the meantime the politica
l climate in Austria had changed, and public opinion – at least in Conservative-Catholi
c circles – increasingly began to see positive sides to the Habsburg legacy. Otto won
 support from the ‘Iron Ring
’ monarchist association which became a platform for the hitherto unorga
nized legitimist tendencies. In 1931 Otto was made a freeman of the town of Ampass in Ty
rol. This was the first sign of a changed attitude towards the dynasty. This initiative gradually 
became a veritable movement; by 1938 Otto had been made a freeman of 1,603 towns in A
ustria. Translation: Sophie Kidd Baier, Stephan; Demmerle, Eva: Otto von Habsburg, Die Bi
ografie. 5. Aufl., Amalthea, Wien 200
7 Brook-Shepherd, Gordon: Otto von Habsburg. Biografie. Verlag Styria,
 Graz-Wien-Köln, 2002 Leidinger, 
Hannes; Moritz, Verena; Schippler, Berndt: Schwarzbuch der Habsburg
er. Die unrühmliche Geschichte eines Her
rscherhauses, 2. Auflage, Innsbruck, Wien 2010 Riedl, Joachim: Ein letzter Hauch der Monarc
hie. Mit dem Tod von Otto Habsburg geht ein Ka
pitel österreichischer Geschichte endgültig zu Ende. In: Wochenzeitung Die Zeit, Nr
. 28, 7. Juli 2011, Österreich-Ausgabe, S. 14. - The Habsbur
gs in exile I: from Switzerland to Ma
deira - Attempts to regain power - Putsch attem
pts in Hungary - Habsburgs in exile II: 1922-
1945 - Zita – to the very last for ‘God, Emperor and Fatherlan
d’ - Otto, the last ‘crown prince’ - Otto and Austrofascism - The ‘Habsburg
 Crisis’ - The beatifi
cation of Emperor Karl I
Number of schools Medium Home Price Median Household Income Wena
tchee is the largest city in Chelan County and technically sits on the West side
 of the Columbia river. East Wenatchee is literally right across the river, but
 lies in Douglas County and is considered a separate entity. Wenatchee might be most famous f
or the apple orchards that are liberally scattered throughout the area. There is quite the h
istory of hydroelect
ric power activity in the area as well, with multiple da
ms in close proximity to Wenatchee. - Wenatchee is currently the the 33rd largest city in the
 State of Washington. - According to the latest Census data taken in 2010, Wenatchee is home
 to about 32,000 resi
dents. - It used to known as the B
uckle of the Power Belt of the Northwest. This was becau
se of all the hydroelectric power generated in the region. -
 Wenatchee was named for an Indian tribe. T
he original spelling was “Wenatchi”. - Physical size: About 8 sq miles
.
For more than a decade, no single issue has
 caused more frustration or curiosity for Python novices and experts alike than 
the Global Interpreter Lock
. An Open Question Every field has one. A problem that has been written off as too difficult, too ti
me consuming. Merely mentioning an attempt to so
lve it raises eyebrows. Long after the community at large has moved on, it 
is taken up by those on the fringe
. Attempts by novices are
 undertaken for no other reason than the difficulty of the problem
 and the imagined accolades that would accompany a solution. The open question in Computer Sc
ience of whether P = NP is 
such a problem. An answer to the affirmative has the
 possibility to literally change the world, provided a "reasonable" polynomial t
ime algorithm is presented. Python's hardest problem is less difficult than crafting a proof
 of P = NP, to be sure. Nevertheless, it ha
s not received a satisfactory solution to date, and the practical impli
cations of a solution would be similarly transformative. Thus, it's easy to see why so man
y in the Python community are interested in an answer to the q
uestion: "What can be done
 about the Global Int
erpreter Lock?" A Low Lev
el Look at Python To understand the G
IL and its implications, we must start at Python's foundations. Languages like C++ are compiled 
languages, so named because a program is fed in to a compiler 
where it is parsed according to the language's grammar, transformed 
into a language agnostic intermediate representation, and
 linked into an executable comprised of 
highly optimized machin
e code. The compiler is able to optimize the code so aggressively becaus
e it is seeing the whole program (or la
rge, self-contained chunks) a
t once. This allows it to reason about in
teractions between different language constructs and make informed decisions abou
t optimization. In contrast, Python is an
 interpreted language. The program is fed into an interpreter in order to be run. The interpre
ter has no knowledge of
 the program before it is run; rather, it knows the rules of Python and is capable of dynam
ically applying those rules. It too has optimizations, but op
timizations of a rather different class. Since the interpreter cannot reason about the program prope
r, most of Python's optimiz
ations are optimizations of the interpreter itself. A faster interpreter means faster 
program execution "for free".
 That is, when the interpreter is optimized, Python programs need not chan
ge to realize the benefit. This is an
 important point, so it bears repeating. The execution speed of a Python program, all other thi
ngs being equal, is directly tied to the "speed" of the interpreter. No matt
er how much optimization you do within your program itself, your progr
am's execution speed is still tied to how efficiently the interpreter can execute your code. It
 is clear, then, why much work has been devoted to optimizing the Python interpreter. It
 is the closest thing to a free lunch Python programmers can get. The
 Free Lunch Is Over Or is it? A generatio
n of programmers have learned to write code while Moore's Law was delivering hardware b
ased speedups with predictable timing.
 If one wrote code that was slow, simply waiting a bit for faster proc
essors was oftentimes the easiest solution. Indeed, Moore's law still holds true and li
kely will for quite a bit lo
nger, but the way in which it holds has fundamentally
 changed. No longer a
re clock rates steadily increasing to dizzying speeds. Instead, multiple co
res are used to take advantage of transistor density incre
ases. Programs wishing to capitalize on new processors must be rewritt
en to exploit parallelism. When most developers hear "parallelism" the immediately think of 
multi-threaded programs. Utilizing multiple threads of execution is by far the most common way
 to take advantage of multi-core systems. While multi-threaded pro
gramming is a good deal tougher than "sequential" p
rogramming, the careful programmer 
may nevertheless exploit parallelizable portions of his or her c
ode to great effect. The implementation language sh
ould be an afterthought, since almost all heavily used modern
 languages support multi-threaded programming. A Surprising Fact Now we
 come to the crux of the issue. To take advantage of multi-core systems, Python mus
t support multiple threads of execution. Being an interpreted language, Python
's interpreter must be written 
in such a way so that doing so is both safe and performant. We all know
 the issues that multi-threaded programming can 
present. The interpreter must be mindful not to o
perate on internally shared data from different threads. It must also manage user's threads in such 
a way that the maximum amount of computation is being performed at all times. What, then, is th
e mechanism by which data is protected from s
imultaneous access by different threads? The 
Global Interpreter Lock. Th
e name is instructive. Quite literally, it is a global (in the sense of the inter
preter) lock (in the sense of 
a mutex or similar construct) on the interpreter. This approach is certainly safe, but it
 has (for the new Py
thon programmer), a startling implication: in any Python program, no mat
ter how many threads and how man
y processors are present, only one thread is being executed at any time. Many discover this 
fact by accident. Newsgroups and message boards
 are littered with mes
sages from Python novices and experts alike asking "why does my newly mu
lti-threaded Python program ru
n slower than when i
t had only one thread?" Many feel silly even asking the question, since of course a program wit
h two threads where before there w
as just one will be faster (assuming that the wo
rk is indeed parallelizable). In fact, the question is ask
ed so frequently that Python experts have cra
fted a standard answer: "Do not use multiple threads. Use multiple processes." But this answer is
 even more confusing than its question. I shouldn't use
 multiple threads in
 Python? How can multi-threading in a language as popular
 as Python be so broken as t
o have experts recommending against its use? Surely I'm missing something?
 Sadly, nothing has been missed. Due to the design of the Python 
interpreter, using multiple threads to increase performance 
is at best a difficult task. At worst, it will
 decrease (sometimes significantly) the speed of your program. A fre
shman CS undergrad could tell you what
 to expect when threads are all competing for a single shared res
ource. The results are often not pret
ty. That said, there are many times that multi-threading 
works well, and it is perhaps a testament 
to both the interpreter implementation and the core developers that there are not more co
mplaints about Python's multi-threading performance. W
hat Now? Panic? So what, then, can be done? Are we as Python developers meant to give up the ide
a of using multiple threads to exploit parallelism? Why does the
 GIL need to guarantee only one t
hread is running at a time anyway? Couldn't finer-grained locks be adde
d to protect individual objects from simultaneous access? And why has no one attempted somet
hing like this before? These are useful questions with interesting answers. Th
e GIL protects access to things 
like the current thread state and heap allocated object for garbage collection. Ther
e is nothing special about the Python language, however, that requires the use of a GIL. I
t is an artifact of the implementation. There are alternative Python interpreters (and comp
ilers) that do not make use of a GIL. For CPython, though, it's been
 there pretty much since
 the beginning. So why not get rid of it? Many are not aware, but this was attempted back in 1999
 for Python 1.5 in the oft-cited but poorly unders
tood "free threading" patches from Greg Stein. I
n the patches, the GIL was completely removed and replaced with finer grained locking. It
s removal, however, came at the expense of execution speed for single-threaded programs. It was p
erhaps 40% slower when running with a single thread. Two threads showed a
n increase in speed, but beyond that the benefits did not scale linearly with the number of cores. B
ecause of the degradation in execution speed, the patches were reject
ed and largely forgotten. The GIL is Hard. Let's Go Shopping! The
 "free threading" patches are instructive, though, in that they demonstrate a fundam
ental point about the Python interpreter: removing the GIL is hard. Since the time of t
he patches, the interpreter has come to rely o
n more global state, making the removal of today's GIL that much more diffi
cult. It should be noted that it is precisely for this reason that many become inte
rested in attempting to r
emove the GIL in the first place; hard problems are fun. But perhaps this is 
all a bit misguided. Let's consider 
what would happen if we had a magical patch that removed the GIL with no p
erformance penalty to single threaded Python code. W
e would have what we said we wanted all along: a threading API that properly makes us
e of all processors simultaneously. Now that we've got what we want, 
is it actually a good thing? Thread based program
ming is hard. There are no two ways about it. Every time
 one thinks he or she understands everything there is to know about h
ow threading works, a new wrinkle is uncov
ered. A number of high-profile language designers and resea
rchers have come out against the threadi
ng model because it is simply too difficult to get right with any reasonable degree of consist
ency. As anyone who has written a multi-threaded application can tell you, both dev
eloping and debugging are exponentially more difficult co
mpared to a single threaded
 program. The programmer's mental model, while well suited for sequential programs, just doesn't
 match the parallel execution 
model. The GIL, then, unintentionally serves to help protect a programmer from 
his or her self. While synchroniz
ation primitives are still
 required when using threads, the GIL actually helps preserve consistency of data between thread
s. It seems, then, that P
ython's most difficult question may be asking the wrong thing. There's a good reason that Python
 experts recommend using multiple processes instead of
 multiple threads, and it's not to hide the inad
equacies of the Python threading implementation. Rather, it is to encourage developers t
o use a safer and more straightforward concurrency model and reserve mult
i-threaded programming for when it is ab
solutely necessary. To many, it is not clear what, if any, is the "best" model for parallel progr
amming. What is clear to most, however, is multiple threads is not it. As for the GIL,
 don't think it just
 sits there static and unanalyzed. Pyt
hon 3.2 saw a new GIL implementation by Antoine Pitrou with encouraging results. It 
was the first major change to the GIL since 1992. The change is to
o large to explain he
re, but at a high level, the old GIL counted Python instructions to determine when it was time
 to give up the GIL. As it turns out, a single Python ins
truction can comprise a
 large amount of work, as they don't tran
slate 1:1 to machine instructions. In the new GIL, a hard ti
meout is used to instruct the current thread t
o give up the lock. When a second thr
ead requests the lock, the thread currently holding it is compelled to release it after 5ms (that i
s, it checks if it needs to release it every 5ms). This leads to more predictable swit
ching between threads when work is available. It is not a p
erfect change, however. Perhaps the most active
 researcher into the effect 
of the GIL on various types of work is David Beazley. In additio
n to what is likely the most in-depth
 look at the pre-3.2 GIL, he has
 researched the new GIL implementation and discovered a number of interesting program profiles
 for which even the new GIL performs quit
e poorly. He continues to drive the discussion surrounding the GIL forward with practica
l research and published results. Regardless of one's personal feelings about Python's Global Interp
reter Lock, it remains the language's most difficult technical
 challenge. To understand its implications requires a thorough und
erstanding of operating system design, multi-threaded programming, C, int
erpreter design, and the CPython interpreter implementation. Those pr
erequisites alone preclude many developers from investigating i
t more thoroughly. Nevertheless, the GIL 
shows no signs of going away any time soon. For the t
ime being, it will continue to both con
fuse and surprise those new to the language while simultaneously intriguing those interested in t
rying to solve very difficult technical problems. The p
receding is based on my research to date into
 the Python interpreter. While there are many other parts of the interpreter I
 hope to write about, none is more well known than the Global Interpreter Lock. The te
chnical details were researched thoroughly against the CPython repository tip, though I i
magine there are some inaccuracies. If you spot one, please let me know so that I may correct
 it as quickly as possible.Posted on by
 Jeff Knupp
Ever wonder how you can remember the lyrics of a 
song that was popular and you sang along with maybe 20 years ago, bu
t still forget what you may have had for breakfast? We spend a lifetime using our brains during 
every waking and sleeping moment to acquire knowledge. Some refer to our brains as the inf
inite resource being able to solve a multitude of problems on a daily basis. It is obvi
ous that we must have knowledge to solve problems in our wor
k or home whether it be social, emotional or even functional. 
In order to be successful in formulating a pathway for so
lution, we need a reservoir of information and
 data that we acquire fr
om our reading, communicating with others, and by doing formal study. Having 
facts, ideas, and methods available in our memories we
 can analyze, conclude, and understand. The more knowledge we gain, the more curious we be
come and innovation is not far behind. So the question is; Wha
t are the best techniques for students to study so that they may retain t
he greatest amount of knowledge which they need in their daily schooling
? The brain makes connections on bits of information it is presented and formula
tes ideas on what follows in memory. Cognitive scientists have been working for years o
n how the brain processes thoughts and makes sense of variou
s stimuli. The latest research suggests that spaced repetition is
 one of the most powerful vehicles to help
 us learn. Simply quizzing o
urselves often pays great benefits. Each ti
me our brain tries and is successful in retrieving infor
mation, the greater its capacity to solidify in memory. As an independent 
school, we find that reviewing in
formation or practicing at the right time is critical for durable learning. Spac
ed repetition or “Distributed Practice” refers to reviews that take place afte
r some time from the original learning event, as opposed to reviews that occur
 immediately following the original learning
 event (termed massed practice). Using Spaced Practice takes a little of planning to 
begin with; however, in the long run information will remain in memory longe
r and will actually 
reduce study time. Here’s how it works! Using a vehicle such as flash cards is the easie
st way to begin. Studying your cards for five hours spread out over two weeks is better than the 
same five hours all at once. Review information from each class, but not immediately after class. 
After reviewing information from the most recent class, make sure to go ba
ck and study important older information to keep 
it fresh. Just like in sports, practice makes perfect. Using flash c
ards or apps. like Anki or Quizlet
 are much more powerful than just re-reading your class not
es. At first this may seem difficult and you may 
forget some information from day-to-day, but this is actuall
y a good thing! A little struggle forces the brain to retrieve information from memory making 
topics more understandable and cas
ed in stone as they say. Creating small spaces between study whi
le doing a little bit over time adds up in the future. In the r
esearch literature, the learning advantage of distributed over m
assed practice is known as the spacing ef
fect. In general, the resear
ch is clear that spaced practice is superior fo
r long-term learning and r
etention. The reason that spaced repetition se
ems to work is that each time the information you are attempting to reme
mber is recalled your brain 
has to search for this information and this deep process of retrieval over time strengthens 
the neural connections. It is also thought that this practice is the secr
et to long term retention of k
nowledge since this process helps connect related mat
erial and presents the brain with the opportunity to
 become creative to solve problems in 
life.
TRAIL TO EAGLE Significance of the Eagle Scout Rank The fact that a young man is an Ea
gle Scout has always carried with it a special s
ignificance, not only in Scouting but also as he enters higher educ
ation, business or industry, and community service. The award is a performance-based achievement w
hose standards have been well-
maintained over the years. Not every boy who joins a Boy Scout t
roop earns the Eagle Scout rank; only about 5% of all Boy Scouts do so. This represents more 
than 2 million Boy Scouts who have earned the rank since 1912. Nevertheless, the goals of 
Scouting—citizenship training, characte
r development, and personal fitness—remain important for all Scouts, whether or not 
they attain the Eagle Scout ran
k.
Borage nutrition facts Borage or bee plant is one of the chosen culinary herbs used by our grandm
others to make their meals look and taste better, be it to make popular green sauce, to
 garnish salads or to pamper childr
en with candied flowers! This 
ancient garden herb exudes characteri
stic cucumber aroma to the recipes it added to...thus making it as one of the most sought after her
b in the households. Bo
tanically, it belongs to the family of Borabinace
ae, of the genus Borago and 
has scientific name: Borago officin
alis. The herb is known also as starflower since it bears five p
etal deep blue color star-shaped beautiful flowers in clusters. Some other
 common names include bee b
read, burrage, common bugloss...etc. Borage is annual hollow stemmed plant with bristly ha
irs and reaches about 75-90 cm in height. It grows in plentiful all over the wild highlan
ds of Eastern Europe and Asia Minor reg
ions. The plant features broad oval shaped dark green fuzzy
 leaves. In general, its leaves are harv
ested from the plant just after the flower buds form but before flowering. Younge
r leaves are used in salads while older leaves are used as greens. Howev
er, as the plant gets older, the le
aves get tougher, larger, more fuzzy, and bitter in taste. Health benefits of borage Borage is one 
of very popular culinary herb especially in Mediterranean countries
. The herb contains many notable phyto-nutrients, minerals, and vitamins that are essential for opti
mum health and wellness. The herb parts contain essential fatty acid gamma
-linolenic acid (GLA), typically in concentrations of 17-20%.
 Linolenic acid is omega-6 fatty acid that play 
vital role in restoration of joint health, immunity, healthy s
kin and mucus membranes. Fresh burrage 
herb has high levels of vitamin C (ascorbic acid
); provide 35 mcg or 60% of RDA 
per 100 g. Vitamin C is one of th
e powerful natural anti-oxidant help remove harmful free radicals from the body. Alo
ng with other anti-oxidants, it has immune booster, wound healing and anti-vi
ral effects. Burrage herb contains very high levels of vitamin A (140% of RDA) and carotene
s . Both these compounds are powerful flavonoid ant
i-oxidants. Together, they act as protective 
scavengers against oxygen-derived free radicals and reactive oxygen species (ROS) tha
t play a role in aging and 
various disease processes. Vitamin A is known to have antioxidant properti
es and is essential for vision. It is also required for maintaining healthy mucus membra
nes and skin. Consumption o
f natural foods rich in vitamin A a
nd carotenes are known to help bod
y protect from lung and oral cavity c
ancers. The herb has good amount of
 minerals like iron (41% of RDA), calciu
m, potassium, manganese, copper, zinc, 
and magnesium. Potassium is an important co
mponent of cell and body fluids, which helps control heart rate and blood
 pressure. Manganese is used by the body as a co-factor for the antioxidant enzyme, superoxide dismu
tase. Iron is an important co-factor for cytochrome oxidase enzyme in the cellular metabolism. In a
ddition, being a component of hemoglobin inside the red blood cells, 
it determines the oxygen carrying capacity of the blood. The herb is o
ne of the good sources of B-complex vitamins, particularly rich in niacin (
vitamin B-3). Niacin helps lower LDL cholesterol levels in the body. In addition, it has riboflav
in, thiamin, pyridoxine, and folates in adequa
te levels. These vitamins function as co-factors in the enzymatic metabolism inside the body. |Princ
iple||Nutrient Value||Percentage of RDA| |Total Fat||0.70 g||2%| |Pantothenic 
acid||0.041 mg||1%| |Vitamin A||4200 IU||140%| |Vitam
in C||35 mg||60%| Selection and storage Borage sho
uld be fresh for use in salads and in cooking. While buying from the mark
ets look for fresh herb leaves with s
tout succulent stem and deli
cate cucumber flavor, which emanate when you hold the plant from short distance. Like ot
her greens such as spinach, borage can stay fresh only for few days and looses flavor rather sooner.
 In addition, unlike other herbs (like oregano); dried borage leaves are out o
f flavor and hence used only when they are fresh. Avoid sunken, yellow or dried leaves as 
they are out of flavor and taste. Once at home, store borage as you do it for spinach or
 like any other greens. Preparation and serving methods: Wash fresh herb in cold running water
 or rinse for few minutes to remove any dust o
r any pesticide residues. The herb can
 be used in large quantities like green vegetables. Remo
ve tough leaves and stem using paring knife. Here are some cooking tips
: Young tender borage leaves add flavor of cucumber to salads. Mature leaves can be used as a g
reen vegetable in much the same way as spinach. It mixes well with other green
s, green beans, carrots, potato, tomato etc. Tender leav
es used to make cool juice with added lemonade. Borage
 flowers are often cooked in batter as fritters. They can also be c
andied. Borage is one of the common ingredients along with parsley
, chervil, chives, w
atercress, sorrel, and salad burnet in the preparation of traditional 
German green sauce. Fresh herb can also be added to sausages, pizza and in poultry stuffing. Borag
e tea is popular refreshing drink in the European count
ries. Medicinal uses of borage herb Borage herb parts espe
cially its seeds contain many health b
enefiting essential oil such as gamma-linolenic acid. This omega-6 fatty aci
d (18:3 fats) has recommended in the treatment of art
hritis, dermatitis, pre-menstrual painful conditions... etc. - An infusion of
 leaves and seeds is used i
n traditional medicines to increase breast milk 
production in the nursing mothers. Share this article
Origin of percipientClassical Latin percipiens, present participle of percipere
: see perceive Origin of percipientLatin percipiēns per
cipient- present participle of percipere to perceive ; see perceive . - per·cip′i·ence p
er·cip′i·en·cy (comparative more percipient, superlative most percipient) - Having the ab
ility to perceive, especially to perceive quickly. - (psychology, education, dated) Perceivin
g events only in the moment, without reflection, as a very
 young child. - Over time children a
dvance from the percipient stage to the perceptive stage, in which they
 begin to reflect on the significance
 of events. From Latin pe
rcipient-, root of percipiens, present participle of percipio (“to perceive")
National Rehabilitation Awareness Week is a t
ime to celebrate all of the wonderful ways rehabilitation can help indivi
duals get back to doing the things they love. But what exactl
y qualifies as “rehab” and what does a rehab professional do? There are seve
ral disciplines within rehab and many settings where rehab professionals work including physical 
therapy and occupational therapy. Physical therapy r
equires the care and guidance of a licensed physical therapist or PT. PT’s 
are skilled in perfor
ming examinations, diagnosis, and using evidence-based practice to develop a treatment pla
n. All PT’s are required to have a bachelor’s and mas
ter’s degree or clinical doctorate. For many patients, it’s no
w easier than ever to get physical therapy. You can schedule
 directly with a PT and we will send the docto
r of your choice our initial evaluat
ion with plan of care. We also accept referrals from the foll
owing providers: MD’s, PA’s, NP’s, DO’s, P
DM’s, DDS’s and DC’s. Physical Therapy Assistants (PTA’s) are licensed clinic
ians that work under the supervision of a PT to provide care. They hold an associate’s de
gree from an accredited school and many also have a bachelo
r’s degree. Both PT’s and PTA’s must complete 
30 hours of continuing education every 
2 years to maintain their licenses. Simila
r to physical therapy, the purpose of occupational therapy i
s to enable people to fulfill, or work towards fulfillin
g, their potential as occupational beings. Occupational therapists promote fu
nction, quality of life and the realization of potential in a person experiencing occupational depr
ivation, imbalance or alienation. If your life is interrupted due to a develo
pmental problem, orthopedic or neurological injury or disease or havin
g difficulty with normal limitations that occur with aging, occupational therapy may help you g
ain/regain life skills, adapt the environment to mak
e activities of daily living easier or teach you to compensate in order to be as i
ndependent as possible. After earning a master’s degre
e from an accredited Occupational Therapy program, an OT may
 work in schools, hospitals or independent clinics. OTs serve persons with hand injuries, after str
oke, spinal cord injuries, 
neurological disease, head injury including concussion, 
cerebral palsy, Down Syndrome, autism 
and many more. So if 
you cannot put on your socks or you can no longer sign your name, O
ccupational Therapists 
can help you learn ways to return to self care, home care, work and leisure tasks. Esthe
r Hendler, MOT is an Occupational Therapist at Ochsner Therap
y and Wellness in Metairie. To schedule an appointment, pleas
e call 504-842-4348.
Items you will need Electric cross cut saw or saw Building a concrete
 water trough for cattle that is strong and secure is essential to herd health. On average, a c
ow drinks 12 gallons of water per day, eats one t
o five pounds of grain per day, and one to three percent of their body weight in forage, 
such as hay or grass. Building a trough that can accommodate several cows at the sa
me time is ideal, because it promotes herd harmony and allows each cow to get the nutrients they 
need. Place the tire in the location you h
ave chosen for the trough. A tire that is 42-ply thick is ideal and will hold
 up in extreme heat and cold. Cut the bead off the top of the tire with a s
aw to create a wider opening at the 
top of the trough. The bead is the side of
 the tire. Leave the bottom and treads of the tire, as they will act as insul
ators in extreme conditions. Pour the concrete into the tire. It will take abou
t half a yard of concrete to fill the tire. The concrete will adhere to th
e rubber, forming a strong bond that will resist cracking and leaks. Al
low the concrete to dry thoroughly. Pour an additional concrete pad that is four to six inches th
ick around the tire to insulate it further, if yo
u live in a cold climate. You 
may also use gravel around the trough to protect the ground from 
cattle walking on it frequently. - BananaStock/Banan
aStock/Getty Images
Every year, millions of Americans cre
ate original works - books, music, research and other forms of creat
ive expression. All of these creations are intellectual property, and
 all of them are protected by copyr
ight. For writers, editors, and publishers, understanding copyright is
sues is essential, especially now
 that the production of counterfeit and pira
ted goods, including written works, has become so prevalent. Indeed, according 
to the OECD, the value of imported fake good
s worldwide based on 2016 customs seizure dat
a was $509 billion, up from $461 bill
ion in 2013 (2.5% of world trade). While al
l U.S. businesses are vulnerable to IP theft, small businesses are often at a particular disadvant
age. This is especially true for writers and small publications
 - with more than 20,500 m
agazines and over 7,600 daily and weekly newspapers in th
e nation, there is a wealth of material
 for IP thieves to steal. And now that the Inte
rnet has made copying and distributing 
protected material easier than ever b
efore, it is critica
l that you understand the basics of protec
ting your original work. That's why the U.S. Patent and Trademark O
ffice, along with other government agencies, is rea
ching out to small businesses to help them protect their intellectual property.
 Our campaign includes a web site, www.stopfakes.go
v, specifically designed to help individuals and small businesses learn how to protect 
themselves in all types of intellectual property
. In order to protect yourself from IP theft, it's important to know the basics about your right
s. For writers, editors and publishers, this 
means taking a look at the ba
sics of copyright: what it is, wha
t it protects, and how to secure it. With this information in hand, you sh
ould be well prepared to defend yourself and your origin
al works from the threat of IP theft. Source USPTO: Copyright Basics
The Lupus Foundation of America is involved in 
an initiative named “Ask the Exp
erts” based on a series of educational presentations focusing on seve
ral topics related to
 lupus. This initiative is a free service that allows participants to learn
 about the disease and ask questions to world’
s leading lupus experts. The topic of May 2015 is e
ntitled “Antiphospholipid Syndrome and Lupus Antic
oagulant” and is presented by Dr. Elisabet Svenungsson, Associate Professor of Rheumatology at 
Karolinska University Hospital in 
Sweden. The presentation can be found here. Systemic lup
us erythematosus (SLE) is a severe autoimmune disease in which the body’s own immun
e system is abnormally activated, leading to an attack on healthy joints and organs, re
sulting in inflammation, swelling, pain, disability and often in tissue dest
ruction and multi-organ damage. SLE is linked to 
circulating harmful autoantibodies. Antip
hospholipid syndrome (APS) can occur in association with SLE. It corresponds to an autoimmune
 disorder characterized by a hypercoagulable state induced by antibodies against phospholip
ids, the major component
 of all cell membranes. These antibodies can i
mpair normal blood vessel functioning, leading to narrowing and 
abnormalities of the vessel (vasculopathy), and cause the formation of blood clot
s (thrombosis) within arteries and veins in several parts of the body such as the 
lungs, heart, kidneys and
 brain. The damage it can induce 
is dependent on the extent and location of the blood clot. APS can cause heart attack and str
oke, and also pregnancy morbidities such as miscarriage and premature delivery. 
Anticoagulant treatment is usually required to manage the disor
der. The 2006 “Sidney criteria” classification has establish
ed that APS is diagnosed when a patient presents at least one clinical symptom (b
lood clots or miscarriage event) and one positive lab
oratory test. These laboratory tests assess the present of antibodies against membran
e phospholipids, namely lupus anticoagulant, anti-beta-2 glyco
protein I and anticardiolipin. According to Dr. Svenungs
son, 30 to 40% of the SLE patients have antiphospholipid antibodie
s and less than half actually develop clinical sym
ptoms of APS. Based on the antibody tes
ts, is not possible to accurately p
redict who is at risk of d
eveloping clinical compli
cations, although patients who are positive for all three antibodies are assumed to be at a h
igher risk. After seeing the presentation, lupus 
patients, caregivers, loved ones and the population
 in general are invited to submit a question by no later than May 15, 2015. Of the questio
ns made, 15 will be selected and the answer will be available in Jun
e. If you would like to participate, please submit your question here. If you are interested 
in checking other presented topics in the “Ask
 the Experts” series
, please visit www.lupus.org/ask. We are sorry that
 this post was not useful for you! Let us improve this post! Tell us how we can 
improve this post?
[/caption]Take a look at that ceramic toilette or sink in you
r bathroom. Ever think to yourself 
that it has something in common with glass, mica, plastic, or e
ven dry air? Ever consider that it might be useful in the construction of capacitors. Probably not, 
but that’s because this material has a property that
 is often overlooked. It is a dielectric, meaning a substance that is a poor con
ductor of electricity, but a good means of electrical storage. Whether 
we are talking about ceramic, glass, air, or
 even vacuum (another good dielectri
c), scientists use what is called the Dielectric Constan
t, which is the ratio of permittivity of a substance to the permit
tivity of free space. Or, in layma
n’s terms, the ratio of the amount of 
electrical energy stored in a material by an applied voltage, re
lative to that stored in a vacuum. Confused? Well, perhaps a little explanation 
is necessary to dispel some of the technical roadblocks to understanding. First of all, a 
dielectric is defined as an insulating materia
l or a very poor conductor of electric current. When dielectrics a
re placed in an electric field, p
ractically no current flows in them because, unlike me
tals, they have no loosely bou
nd, or free, electrons that may drift through the material. Instead, electric
 polarization occurs, where the positi
ve charges within the dielectric are displaced mi
nutely in the direction of the electric fiel
d, and the negative charges are displaced minutely in the direction oppos
ite to the electric field. This slight separation of charge, or po
larization, reduces the
 electric field within the dielectric itself. This property, as
 already mentioned, makes it a poor conductor, b
ut a good storage medium. In practice, most dielectric materials are solid. But, as already 
mentioned, dry air is also dielectric, as are most pure, dry gases such as helium a
nd nitrogen. These have a low di
electric constant, whereas things like metal oxides have a high constant. Mater
ials with moderate dielectric constants include ceramics, distilled water, paper, mica, polyet
hylene, and glass. As the dielectric con
stant increases, the electric flux density increas
es (the total amount of electrical charge per area), but only if all
 other factors remain
 unchanged. This in t
urn enables objects of a given size, such as 
sets of metal plates, to hold their
 electric charge for long p
eriods of time, and/or to hold l
arge quantities of charge. Because of they constitute good in
sulating material (or dielectric)
, metal oxides, dry air and vacuum 
are often used in the construction of high-energy capacitors as well as radi
o-frequency transmission lines, where electri
cal energy is stored at radio frequenc
ies. We’ve also recorded an entire episode
 of Astronomy Cast all about Electromagnetism. Listen here, Episode 103: Electromagnetism.
We want to thank you for developing the perfect Science vocabu
lary flash cards to help su
pport our English as a Second Language (ESL) students. We initially ordered them wit
h just our ESL students in mind, but as it turns out
 they have been helping many of our students who struggle with some of 
the more difficult science terms. If you are debating about purchasin
g these cards, you won’t be disappointed. You can tell a lot of t
hought went into choosing the right photos to help students understand and remember what ma
ny of the key science terms mean. Spillane Middle School
I’ve avoided proofs unless absolutely necessary, but the relation betwe
en the same eigenvector expressed in two different bases, is important. Given that AS is the
 linear transformation matrix in standard basis S, and AB is its counter
part in basis B, we can write
 the relation between them as: where C is the similarity transformation. We’ve seen this relation a
lready; check here if you’ve forgotten about it. Continue readin
g Matrix Theory: An essential proof for eigenvector computations I return to the first example
 about basis vectors, when I spoke of linear transfo
rmations. The linear transformation we had was t
his: The operation it performed on basis 
vectors of the standard basis S was one of scaling, and scaling only. When op
erated on by a linear transformation matrix, if a vector is only scaled as a consequence, tha
t vector is an eigenvector of the matrix, and the scalar is the corresponding eigenvalue.
 This is just the definition of an eigenvector, which I rewrite below: Continue readin
g Matrix Theory: Diagonalisation and Eigenvector Computation Unde
rstand that there is noth
ing extremely special about the standard basis vector
s [1,0] and [0,1]. All 2D vectors may be represented as linear comb
inations of these vectors. Thus, the vect
or [7,24] may be written as: Continue reading Matrix Theory:
 Basis change and Similarity transformations
Skilled Help with Writing Faith Essays Reaching across many ages and cultures in addition to many 
subjects including Literature, History, Anthropology and Philosophy, re
ligion is a varied and contentio
us area. So it is possible to find a number of different methods to approach the
 task of writing an excellent essay on spiritual issue. Normally speaking a faith essay uses lay aca
demic instruments that help us comprehend and assess spiritual views and though
ts. These lay tools are employed by research workers of different religions in communicati
ng with each other. The theories, pr
ocedures, and assumptions use
d in the Humanities and Social Sciences can function as useful tools of investigation 
while composing an essay on spiritual r
esearch paper subject or motif. It’s also possible to turn to logic and philosophy to 
offer techniques for as
sessing religious texts, or investigate 
a religious text as literature. Whatever strategy you could 
select your goal in composing a paper stays unc
hanged: to expand the knowledge of religious
 texts and encounters.
 These suggestions will probably be useful while composing your paper: – contemplate 
your sources; – consider the present dialogue; – keep in your mind that 
religious texts need spe
cific citation proce
dures; – don't let quotes speak for relig
ious.
Wat Thmey, otherwise known as Siem Reap’s Killing Fields, is a site of loss and hope. Many pe
ople who visit Cambodia don’t fully grasp how horrific the country’s recent history is until they g
et here. And, unless they visit Phnom Penh and head to S21 and The 
Killing Fields, they may jus
t think of Cambodia as another developing country. However, it is much more tha
n that. In 1975, the Khmer Rouge t
ook hold of Cambodia. Over the next three and a half years, they reduced their citizens to nothi
ng, stripping them off their dignity, forci
ng them to migrate to different ‘zones’ in Cambodia, losing contact with their families an
d having a direct impact on the death of over two million innocents, which represented 25%
 of the population at the time. The bodie
s of the deceased were often dumped together in fields, pagodas and schools. There are many of the
se ‘Killing Fields’ all over the country. 
One significant Killing Field in Siem Reap is at Wat Thmey. This pa
goda was used as a Khmer Rouge prison to house thousands 
of prisoners (note: prisoners were mo
stly innocents who were ‘tried’ on cr
imes they didn’t commit, and later were 
Khmer Rouge soldiers who were accused of treason). These prisoners were killed and buried insid
e two pits and six water wells located about 250 meters south of the 
prison. It is estimated that around 8,000 people wer
e murdered at this pagoda during the Khmer Rouge regime. In 1995, when Wat Thmey was
 renovated, a substantial 
amount of bones and skulls of the victims were placed in a memorial stupa. These are on disp
lay so both locals and tourists can visit a
nd remember the tragic history of Cambodia. Nowa
days you can find a photo exhi
bition at Wat Thmey, a 
combined project from US Aid and 
the Documentation Center of Cambodia. This exhibi
tion shows photos of the fo
rced transfer of Cambodians during the Khmer Rouge period. The 
vision of this exhibition is that visitors are actively engaged in t
he study, reflection and memory of victims and survivors. There are four other ex
hibitions at four other locations around Cambodia, so the memories of those who died during the 
regime and during the forced relo
cations is kept alive. Although it may be confronting, I would highly recommend a 
visit to Wat Thmey. This horrendous history needs to 
be remembered, and we need to pay respect to those who pointlessly lost their
 lives. |Opening Hours||D
aily from 6am to 6pm| |Location||Road to Angko
r Wat (across from Ch
arming City), Siem Reap|
Big data is a hot topic right now. N
ow, more than ever, companies are using big data to help them in their business, and big data ana
lysts are in short supply. Getting trained to analyze and work with big data wi
ll make you an asset to any company you work for. Big data is a tool of the present, 
and will continue to grow into the future. Don’t get left behind. Jump into a big d
ata course. 1. What is big data? Big data is a large data set which, when analyzed, can 
give information about tre
nds and patterns in people’s behaviour. The term big data can be deceiving though, it really 
does not have anything to do with the size of the data, b
ut rather what the company does with the data
 they have. Taking a course in big data 
will help you understand exactly what “big data” means and how to identify it.
 2. What do companies
 do with big data? Companies ar
e able to use big data to follow trends in their 
business. For example, it can
 help retail businesses to know which products to put on sale, and when. Companies have t
rained big data analysts find the trends and pat
terns in the data they col
lect. Big data provides so much information, that companies are no
w doing what is called prescriptive analytics. Offering the customer wh
at they want, before they want it. In this case, a
nalysts are able to find out what customers 
like, and share new things with them that they know, based on the data, the customers will like. 
3. What is the future of big data? Big d
ata is expected to grow, change and adapt.
 This is not the kind of thing you want to be left 
behind on. Jobs around big data will change as things become more and more auto
mated, and as more da
ta is collected in new ways. The reality though is that nobody really know what the future of big 
data is, exactly. People can guess – more data will be collected and robots will take over – but th
e best way to handle all the changes to come is to lea
rn about them now and grow with t
he industry as it continues to develop. Big data, as a concept, is rather new – become a pio
neer of the big data of tomorrow. 4. What will a big data c
ourse teach? Learning how to work with and analyze big data means w
orking with coding and programming, and working with different 
data processing software. The big data courses s
hould teach the basics of using the most imp
ortant programs and software, as well as making sur
e students have a solid understanding of what big data is, and how that data will ac
tually be used – specifically, what they will do to 
make that data make sense, or make it useful. 5. Why ta
ke a course in big data? Big data is a pretty new concept, so new, in fact, that a lot of people 
still believe it can’t actually be defined. Data
 shows that jobs in big data really only started popping up around 2011, which 
isn’t so long ago. As of right now, the industry has a shortage of big data 
analysts, and of people who can make sense of the data and really figure o
ut what it means. Because big data
 is so new, it means that there are a lot of opportunities wit
hin the industry. Many 
businesses are looking for big data analysts for the first time ever, not trying
 to fill an old position. Alternatively, freelancing is new and
 interesting way to work in big data.
What do we mean by disability? Under the Disability Discriminatio
n Act 2005 (updated 
by Equality Act 2010) a disabled student may be a student with: - specific Learning Difficulti
es (SpLD) including dyslexia, dyspraxia, dys
calculia, Attention Deficit Disorder (ADD) - mental Health difficulties (including
 anxiety and depressive disorders, psyc
hological and psychiatric illness) - long term medical conditions
 such as arthritis, epilepsy, di
abetes, asthma, chronic fa
tigue syndrome - autistic Spectrum Disorders such as Asperger’s’ Syndrome - sensory impa
irments - neurological conditions such as Multiple Sclerosis, 
Cerebral Palsy - mobility difficulties A pers
on can be defined as disabled if their physical or mental impairment: - has a substantial effect
 on them - is long term and has lasted or is expected to last 12 months or more - has 
an adverse effect on h
is/her ability to carry out normal day to day activities S
haring information and
 confidentiality Many disabled people have impairments that are not visible, e.g. medical conditi
ons or mental health issues. For a range of 
reasons, a student or a member of staff might share information with a staff member or a line mana
ger, but ask that this information is kept confidential. Due to 
the sensitive nature of 
information relating to disability issues, it
 is imperative that staff maintain appropr
iate levels of confidentiality. 
Staff should work with students and colleagues in accordance with the law as s
et out on The Data Protecti
on Act 1998, and within existing University and prof
essional bodies' policies and Code
s of Practice. Students and staff need t
o feel that any information they give
 will be treated with respect and only made available to others if they (th
e student or colleague) have consented to sharing information or if there are exceptional 
circumstances which override confidentiality. These exceptional circumstance
s can be summarized as: - where the student or colleague represents a danger to the safety of o
thers or causes them fear or severe distress or where the student or colleague is affecting t
he safety and well-being of people in general - where the st
udent or colleague actually attempts to seriously harm themselves or others, or is thr
eatening to do so in the immediate future - where the law or University policies requires cer
tain information to be disclose
d to others Under the Single Equality Act, once a person has s
hared that they have an impairment that fall
s within the definition of disability under 
the Act, the University is deemed to have knowledge of this. The University then has a legal o
bligation to make any 'reasonable adjustmen
t' necessary for that person to ensure that they are not disadvantaged. 
Request not to share information Making your documents accessible The University of Bradfor
d has a legal l responsibility under the Equality Act 2010 to ensure that electronic inf
ormation is accessible to all. To gain further knowledge of the accessibility issues associat
ed with online documents and
 to develop skills to create accessible documents, you may find the following documents useful: Ma
king your documents accessi
ble guidelines It is essential that disabled students get the reasona
ble adjustments they need and are entitled to while they are ou
t on placement. This is to make sure that they have every opportunity to succeed an
d to make sure that they are not disadvantaged for disability related reasons. Placement procedu
re guidelines Placeme
nt procedure process map Placement supp
ort agreement form Request not to share information with placement Health, Wellbeing and Fitn
ess for Study It is essential that the University adopts a
 pro-active and positive approach to promoting and managing the p
hysical and mental health of our students. Wh
ere there are concerns about a student’s engage
ment, behaviours or academic performance t
hat are a result of impairment, underlying h
ealth or mental health difficulty, it is important that we take consisten
t, co-ordinated and appropriate steps to support that student.
Yes you can, but it will be like a text file. For ex
ample: you save a file with an extension rndm. So on the desktop the file looks like: example.r
ndm. When you click on it, it will say: Windows doesn't know how to
 open this file. Please selec
t a program and you can open it with your TextEditor or IDE. It will open just lik
e a text document. So, there is really is no point for changing up the file ex
tension (Although, I guess it makes you feel cool). 
Also, if you change your file extension to .exe or .vbs ... They are already p
redefined so you might lose all your data in the file. Tha
t is why it is safe to save text files with no ext
ension, because libraries like <iostream> etc.. are just "Files" with no extension. 
I believe this correct but if someone else with more k
nowledge could come in and help that would 
be nice. In linux/unix systems, file extensions don't matter as much. Y
ou can either have them or do without them. Windows on the other hand is quite fussy about thi
s. Filename extensions are really just the type of encoding t
he content of your file is in. So, if you are makin
g a new programming language, you 
have to find a way to teach your computer the encoding and syntax of your 
program then create an extension for it which the computer will r
ecognize.
- By Kizzy Lewis-Phillips - Posted Wednesday, August 3, 2011 Dental Health for Kids
 Practicing proper dental health for kids is
 an important part of enjoyin
g good dental health when they become adults. This program will share the importance of prac
ticing good dental health habits in a fun and enjoya
ble manner that will delight
 kids. Everyone will have fun as they learn how to prevent tooth deca
y. Wednesday, August 10th at 11:00 am
It may seem odd, but some of us use peptides without even r
ealizing it. Insulin is probably the best example we can give. Insulin is the most commonly 
know peptide that is used to regulate the metabolism of carbohydrat
es, fats and protein by p
romoting the absorption of glucose from the blood into liver, fat
 and skeletal muscle cells. In 
recent years, medical research has found many ways in which the power o
f peptides can be harnessed to speed up and improve healing, and to ad
dress a number of other health concerns, including everything from maximizing p
hysical performance, assist with weight loss, reduce inflammation, memory loss and anti
-aging therapies or to increase muscle mass. But bef
ore we get ahead of ourselves, what are peptides, and how can we use them? What are peptides? If y
ou already know proteins, peptides are bas
ically the same thing, just smaller in size. Proteins are very large structu
res composed of many amino acids. They have a very complex role,
 and some of them make up complete body structures. For example, the muscle tissue is filled 
with millions of protein filaments. Each one of these filaments is impressively large on a mol
ecular scale. In contrast, peptides are very small. They are also made
 up of amino acids, but only a handful of them. Their role is also simple compared to la
rge proteins. Most peptides work as messeng
er molecules. They travel long distances in the bloodstream to communicate with distant cells a
nd help your body function in unison. Some may act like neurotransmitters, while others may
 act like hormones. They bind to receptors on the cell su
rface and tell other cells an
d molecules what to do. Peptides are very specifi
c which makes them safe, well tolerated and more importantly allow them to control an
d influence how our bodies react to physical exercise and diet. As of January 201
5, there were over 60 US FDA-approved peptide medi
cations, 140 peptide drugs being evaluated in clinical trials, and 
500 in pre-clinical development. & peptide therapy? As we age, production of essenti
al amino acids and peptides decreases. As a result, our bodies begin to sh
ow signs of aging and cease to perform at an optimal level. Peptide th
erapy is the targeted use of peptides to produce a specific reaction in the body. Peptides 
have a wide range of therape
utic applications. People with different health and performance goals often consider therapeuti
c peptides. Since peptid
es are small and straightforward, they can be developed quite easily and go directly
 to where they are needed. They go directly to stimulate a specific receptor or trigger a p
articular function, making them practical, s
elective, and very safe to use. When pe
ople suffer from issues like chronic back, major joint pain or generalized pain from injuries,
 inflammation, immune deficiencies, decreased natural HGH leve
ls and decreased libido, doctors typically focus on simply covering up the issue. Peptide thera
py treats the root cause of these issues and helps you find 
ways to maintain a healthier, more energized, pain-f
ree lifestyle. Stop letting age or injury hold you back! Health benefits of peptides
 Insulin was first used as a treatment for d
iabetes back in 1920. S
ince then, we have used this and other peptides as a part of medical 
treatments. But nowadays, we have many different peptides, 
and even healthy patients can benefit from their health properties. They mimic normal body 
functions and trigger a healthy and natural response in the body. For in
stance: - CJC 1295/Ipamorelin: This is a growth hormone secr
etagogue. Simply put, it stimulates the pituitary gland to synthesize and release 
the growth hormone. While exogenous growth hormone can correc
t growth deficiencies, this peptide promotes muscle
 growth, weight loss, increase cellular repair, regeneration, collagen pr
oduction, bone mineralization, promotes healthier sleep and im
proves energy levels. - B
PC 157: Not all peptides need
 to be injected, and this is a s
uitable example. It is a Body Protection Compo
und that accelerates wound healing (m
uscle, ligament, tendon
, nerve) and prevents tissue damage and ha
s been shown to decrease pain in damaged areas. It is als
o helpful to treat gastrointestinal inflammatory problems such as Cro
hn’s disease and ulcerative colitis. Protects and heals inflamed intestina
l epithelium (leaky gut). Protects liver from toxic insults (alcohol, antibiotics
, etc) and promotes healing. There is even evidence of neurop
rotection and nerve regeneration (improves memory & focus) - GHK-
Cu: Peptide benefits are also useful for the cosmetic industr
y, and this is an example. GHK-Cu has a variety of roles in the human body including promo
ting healthier skin (tightens loose skin and reverse thinning of aged skin) Repairs protec
tive skin barrier proteins, Improves skin firmness, elasticity
, and clarity. Reduces fine lines, depth of wrinkles, and improves structure of a
ged skin. How do they work? All of these peptides are made up of amino acids. T
hey are organic comp
ounds that feature an amine and a carboxyl group. Peptid
es contain somewhere between 2 and 50 amino acids. If they have 
more than 50, they will be called polypeptides and proteins if the
y have more than 100. Once the peptide is assemb
led, it falls into different categories depending on its functions. Some of them are enzyma
tic peptides, which bind a target substance and modify its chem
ical structure. In contra
st, hormonal peptides will stimulate a cell receptor and bring messag
es to different parts of the
 body. There are many t
ypes and benefits, and the best part is that peptides can be combined in ma
ny different ways to treat ailments, preve
nt health problems, and help
 you achieve your wellness goals. At Fitat60 we are now working on devel
oping a range of products for our customers. We are finding and developing the best product
s and programs for people ove
r 60. No corners cut.
Rosa Luxemburg (1871-1919) was a revolutionary socialis
t author and educator i
n the German Social Democratic P
arty before World War I. When the party supported the German governme
nt, she broke with it and later founded the Independent Social Democratic Party and the
 Communist Party of Germany. In 1919 the social d
emocratic government instructed the elite
 paramilitary unit (GKSD) to suppress the communists, and they captured Luxemb
urg and Karl Liebknecht in Be
rlin; both were dead within hou
rs. Luxemburg was shot and shove
d into a canal. "The Beginni
ng" (an excerpt) Against the Current, No.
 200, May/June 2019 Marxist Theory and the Proletariat Against the Current, No. 197, N
ovember/December 2018
Different Types of Hearing Loss Hearing loss can be experie
nced in varying degrees, such as mild, mode
rate, moderately-severe, severe or profound. Additionally, 
this loss can also vary depending on pitche
s or frequencies. A series of hearing test
s can determine the amount of loss you experience c
ompared to an average of many other adult
 listeners with typical hearing. The volume of sou
nds you hear is measured in decibels (dB), 15-20 dB being the softest whisper and 120 dB being
 a jet engine. The softest sounds one can hear are called thresholds. Normal hearin
g thresholds for adults are considered 0-25 dB across 
the range of frequencies tested. Speech testing is also conducted as a part of this series of eva
luations and helps to assess the level
s of particular words you can hear clearly. These tests can help determine the type of hearing loss 
you’re experiencing, which can be categorized conductive, sensorineural o
r mixed. Conductive hea
ring loss Conductive hearing loss occurs when there is a problem with
 the way sound is conducted to the inn
er ear and a structure called the cochlea. The problem may lie in the ear canal, ea
rdrum (tympanic membrane) or
 the middle ear (ossicles and Eustachian tube). The inne
r ear and auditory nerve remain unaffected in this type 
of hearing loss. Symptoms for conductive hearing loss are similar to the ot
her types; however, individuals may complain of sounds being muffled or far too
 quiet. Some causes of conductive hearing loss can include: - Outer 
or middle ear infections - Complete ea
rwax blockage - Deterioration of the middle ear bones (ossicles) - Otoscl
erosis, the fixation of the ossicles - Pe
rforated tympanic membrane or a hole in the eardrum - Absence of the outer ear or middle ear
 structures Conductive hearing loss may be temporary or perm
anent, depending on the source of the problem. M
edical management can correct some cases of conductive hearing 
loss, while hearing instruments may be a recommended treatment option
 in long-standing or permanent cases.
 Sensorineural hearing loss Sensorineural hearin
g loss occurs when there is a problem with the sen
sory receptors of the hearing system, specifically in the cochlea of the
 inner ear or auditory nerve. The majority of sensorineural
 hearing loss occurs as a
 result of an abnormality or damage to the hair cells in the cochlea. Th
is abnormality prevents sound from being transmitted to the brain normally, which results in a
 hearing loss. Individuals with sensorineural hearing loss may he
ar muffled speech, suffer from t
innitus (or ringing in the ears), 
have difficulty hearing in back
ground noise or clar
ity of speech problems. There are a number of
 causes of sensorineural hearing loss, includin
g: - Congenital: These hair cells have been abnormal si
nce birth, which is co
nsidered a congenital condition. - D
amage to hair cells: A deficit in hearing also occurs when the cells are dama
ged as a result of genetics, infection, drugs, trauma or over-exposure to noise (la
te-onset or acquired). - Presbycusis: Age-related hearing loss Sensorine
ural hearing losses ar
e generally permanent and may remain stable or wo
rsen over time. Routine hearing tests are needed to monitor the hearing loss. Hearing aids are th
e most common and successful 
treatment, allowing hearing professionals to adjust settings 
as needs change. Mixed hearing loss Mixed hearing loss occurs when a 
person has a sensorineural hearing loss in combination with a con
ductive hearing loss. This means there is a problem in the inner 
ear as well as in the outer and/or middle ear. The conductive hearing loss may
 be temporary or permanent, depending on the source of the
 problem. Mixed hearing loss can sometimes be trea
ted with medical management and hearing aids are a common treatment recommendation.
The North Carolina Department of Public Instruction (NC DPI) sets out that in order for a student 
with a learning disability to g
et special education services and protections h
e or she must first be found eligible for special education in the category of Specific Learnin
g Disabilities. The process and criteria in North Carolina are found in the NC Policies and th
e Addendum. North Carolin
a has recently changed how studen
ts with a learning disability are evaluated and identified in order to get special education ser
vices and protections. An explanation of these changes is provided in Current Ad
vocacy Issues. Parents’ rights in the special education process are provided in the NC 
DPI parents’ rights handbook. Last Updated – April 2017
Dear Sonoma County Neighbor: Did you know that our Sonoma County D
epartment of Health Services wants to
 add fluoridation chemicals to our public tap water in an attempt to prevent cavities in some of 
our lower-income kids who currently lack access to good den
tal care? Did you know that water fluoridation, no matter how well-intentioned, is not effective at 
preventing tooth decay
, and is not safe for our health, the health of our kids, or the health of our environment? Ev
eryone in Sonoma County deserves access to safe, effective, individu
alized dental care. But 
fluoridation of the entire public water supply without regard for need or safety is the wrong way t
o deliver dental care to our community. Here are ju
st some of the reasons why fluoridating our w
ater is not a good idea, brought to you by the researchers at Fluoride Action Network: It's N
ot Safe: Recent Science Confirms Serious Health Risks Th
e Sonoma County government has identified hydrofluorosilicic acid, an
 unpurified Class One hazardous waste byproduct of the phosphate fertilizer
 industry, as the fluoridation chemical 
it would add to Sonoma County's drinking water. Major scientific stud
ies from the National Academy of Sciences, Harvard University and other health 
organizations and universities have pro
ven serious uncertainties and risks from fluo
ridated drinking water, including decreased childhood IQ, kidney and thyroid
 disorders, and skeletal fluorosis. Even the ADA a warns against mixing infant formula wit
h fluoridated water to avoid excessive exposure for infants and their developing bodies and 
brains. And what's more, water fluoridation pos
es a major risk because there's
 no way to control the dose of these chemicals. That's becaus
e it's impossible to regular how much water peo
ple drink -- and the
refore, how much flu
oridation chemicals they ingest. This poses an inevit
able risk that some people will ingest f
ar too much fluoride, while others won't get the optimal dose proponents say they need. This is not
 a safe way to prevent cavities in our children. It's Not
 Effective: Studies Show Water Fluoridation Does
 Not Work Study after study around the
 world shows that ingesting fluoride internally is not effective for preventing cavities. That's b
ecause fluoride works topically -- it needs to be 
put directly on the teeth to be effective. Across the United States cities that have been fluoridat
ed for decades are still dealing with dental health problems. An
d around the world there i
s no difference in the rat
e of tooth decay in countries that have used fluoridation chemicals 
compared to those that have not. It's Not Practical: 99% of
 Fluoridation Chemic
als Would be Wasted The public water su
pply is the least efficient 
delivery mechanism for any substance intende
d for human ingestion, let alone controversial fluoridation chemicals. 99% of our ta
p water in Sonoma County goes down the 
drain, and just a fraction of the remaining 1% that's us
ed for drinking actually reaches the kids who are most in need of better dental care.
 That's because many of the lower-income kids in Sonoma County who
 are suffering from tooth decay don't drink tap water, according to the 2013 SMILE report. There a
re Better Alternatives For Kids' Teeth Increasing ac
cess to dental care, prevention and education is th
e only real solution to improving kids' dental health. Instead of spending millions of dollars to b
egin fluoridating the public water, and $350,000 or more a year on fluoridation chemicals t
hat are largely waste
d, why don't we invest that money in directly 
dental care that actually reaches at-risk kids? Want to know more? Go to our Get the Facts page F
luoridation is an obsolete mea
sure that's simply not worth the risk. Let's come togeth
er to find safe, effective ways to solve dental health problems. Read more 
and get links to videos and
 other resources on our 
Get the Facts pages.
As a teenager, it is very important to have a good diet plan in order to hav
e a better physical and mental
 health. In the present scenario, fast food and unhealthy diet plans have
 led teenagers towards obesity. What you eat ha
s a great impact on your lifestyle and daily 
activities. Your food act as a fuel for your body, it energizes you and makes you able to mov
e, think and breathe. So, being a 
teenager, it is very necessary to include healthy foods in 
your regular diet plans. Here are some healthy diet plans for teenagers. Eat your breakfast
 like a king. A glass of juice or milk with cereals and a vegetable san
dwich made of whole wheat bread is always a good option.
 For non-vegetarian persons, a vegetable sandwich can be repla
ced by a ham sandwich or either chicken. Avoid over eating 
but eat enough to fill yourself 
until the time of lunch. For the variety, you can add white egg omel
ette, a bowl of oats with a
 fruit shake, couple of toast and smoothie, boiled eggs
 and some fruits. Enrich your breakfast with a combination of fiber, protein, vitamins and miner
als. Combine your cereals with fruit to give it a tangy twist. Have a 
good diet at the lunch. You can have salads, baked 
beans or grilled chicken.
 Tacos (a Mexican dish consisting of a fried tortilla (a thin, flat pancake of cornmeal or flo
ur, eaten hot or cold, typically with a savory filling), which is typically folded, filled with vari
ous mixtures, such as seasoned meat, beans, lettuce, and tomatoes) s
tuffed with lettuce and cheese can
 be used as the source of protein. Beef steaks with tofu and chickpea salad
 can be a very nutritious lunch to have. Avoid junks such as burger, pizzas
, wafers and soft drinks. For the variety add fish, ham, spinach and soups to your meal.
 Try to have less fatty food with more and more fiber or proteins. Take a light meal a
t the evening snacks, have fruit
s and raw vegetables. Peanut butter can be another good option
. Turkey sandwich with a glass of juice or the coffee is always 
preferred. For the variety add
 Greek yogurt, with vegetables, tortilla and spicy popcorn. Don’t eat too much in the snacks and kee
p it fresh. Dinner is the last meal of the day so it needs to be light. Eat less in the dinner a
nd go for a walk after it. You can have chicken breast with spro
uts, roasted chicken avocado and chicken fingers. For vegetarians, lemony lentil sou
p and a spinach pasta can be so yummy and hea
lthy to eat. For the mental fitness of the body, vitamins and minerals such as iron and calcium a
re vital elements. And for physical health protein along with 
other vital minerals and vitamins are very important. The foods mentioned in abov
e diet plans enrich in all these essential nutritional parameters. Apart
 from the diet plan, physical e
xercise is also important for ph
ysical as well as mental h
ealth. Do exercise daily for at least 3
0 minutes or involve yourself in physical sports such as basketball, football or rugby
. Follow the above diet plan and 
have a healthy lifestyle without even compromisin
g in taste.
Name: Ryan M. As both an aspiring artist and scientist, I have always been perplexed by t
he contradiction between the two as far as primary colours are concerned.In scienc
e the primary colours are red, green and blue
. This makes sense as it can be proved with a ray box. However, in art the primary col
ours are said to be blue, red and yellow and red which is believable as with th
ese colours all other colours can be The theory of color is NOT straightforward. It inv
olves chemistry, physics, physiology, and psychology. In fact it is p
ossible to create color from "black and white" transparencies exposed using dif
ferent filters!! And the now common place digit
al cameras produce colors from electronic pixels that 
have no intrinsic color at all. What is a poor artist 
to do?? I have just finished readi
ng the best presentation of this complicated subject from an art
ist's perspective, which you
 will find very readable and fascinating. The book 
is titled: "Bright Earth: Art and the Invention of Color" by P
hilip Ball [ISBN 0-226
-03628-6] The University of Chicago
 Press. Fascinating reading for scientist and artist alike. The fi
rst thing to realize is that the number of "primary" colors depends on the type of creature 
that is doing the looking. Normal cones in the human eye sense l
ight in broad color bands in the red, green and blue-violet regions of the spectrum. These 
bands overlap a great deal. Thus, for humans, mixing various am
ounts of three colors of light (red, green and blue) wil
l produce all colors that can be perceived. That i
s for an additive source like a computer monitor or TV screen that produces The h
uman eye is sensitive to broad bands of light
 wavelengths, and thus the eye is not a spectrometer: it interpolates colors depending which of 
the three cones are receiving light. For exam
ple, there are two ways to make "yellow" light. 1) use eq
ual amounts of red and green light. These stimulate the red an
d green cones, and the brain sees "yello
w". 2) use a wavelength of light that is between red and green (about 565nm). Because the respo
nse of the red and green cones overlaps, this single color
 also stimulates both the red and green cones. The brain sees "yellow in both T
here are three types of color blindne
ss, depending on which color sensor is For pictu
res using paint or ink, it gets a little more complicated because what happe
ns to the light before it str
ikes the eye is a two-step process. Inks are subtractive. 
They block various colors of light and only the color
s that are NOT blocked are reflected from the 
paper to your eyes. For example, yellow ink absorbs blue light, but all
ows red and green light to reflect from the paper
. The human eye sees yellow which is red and gre
en. Cyan, which is a so
rt of green/blue, absorbs red, but lets blue and green light reflect from the paper. So i
f you put both yellow and cyan ink on the paper, only green light gets th
rough to the eye. Simila
rly, magenta is a purplish-red color that absorbs green. Dogs seem t
o have only two kinds of
 color receptors in the eye. They see fewer separate colors. Many birds have f
our or more types of con
es (the extra one is ultraviolet). They see potentially many more colors than h
umans, depending on how the brain perceives this color. Bi
rds would need a TV with four primary colors, or paper with four different kinds of inks for their
 full color vision. More information can be found in encycloped
ias. The easiest thing to do is point you to the following web site
 which I believe does a good job describing the differen
ces between Red-Green-Blue, Red-Blue-Yellow, and Cyan-Magenta-
Yellow and what is meant by Primary Colors
. The colors of paint and crayons 
do not add color to the light we see; they absorb light from it. A "perfect" set of paint c
olors is in fact magenta, yellow, and cya
n. For most human ey
es, magenta is very close to red and cyan is very close to blue. Yellow
 is yellow. Red, yellow
, and blue will work almost as well as magenta, yellow, and cyan. Also, red, yellow, and blue 
are all well known colors, easier to talk about. Magenta paint will remove green from white lig
ht, reflecting back red and blue. Yellow removes blue light, reflecting back red and green. Cy
an absorbs red, reflecting green and blue. If you combine cyan and yellow 
paint, red and blue are absorbed. In white l
ight, this reflects only green. This is why blending blu
e and yellow paint gives you green. Math, Science, Engine
ering Illinois Central College The spectral primaries are p
ure colors and deal wit
h light sources. The
 light impinging on an object is, for example, red. N
o matter what "color" the object might appear when illuminated with white light it 
will appear red when the light source is pure red (assuming at l
east some of the light is r
eflected instead of absorbed). In are you very rarely have lig
ht of a pure color. Instead, an object appears red because it absorbs all colors 
except red. The red light is 
reflected to our eyes. This difference is why when you mix red, green, and blue l
ight sources you perceive white light but if you mix red green and blue colors
 you get black. The red color ab
sorbs green and blue, green absorbs red and blue and blue absorbs red and green. The net result 
is all colors of light get absorbed and you perceive black. Cl
ick here to return to the Physics Archives Update: June 2012
Also found in: Dictionary, Thesaurus, Medica
l, Legal, Acronyms, Wikipedia. Related to artificial
 respiration: artificial ventilation artificial respiration,any measure that 
causes air to flow in and out of a person's lungs when na
tural breathing is ina
dequate or ceases, as in respiratory paralys
is, drowning, electric shock, choking, gas or smoke inhalation, or poisoning. 
Respiration can be taken over by an artificial lung (especially in respiratory paralysis), a pulmot
or, or any other type of mechanical respirator (see resuscitatorresuscitator , device use
d to revive a person whose normal brea
thing has been disrupted. Several types are in wide use
. The automatic tank resuscitator consists of a face ma
sk that fits tightly over 
the nose and mouth and is connect
ed by a tube to one or more tanks of gas. ..... Click the link for more information. ). In emergenc
y situations, however, when no professional he
lp is available, rescuers undertake the mouth-to-mouth or mouth-to-nose method of ar
tificial respiration. First, any foreign material is swept out of the mouth with the h
and. The victim is placed on his back, with the head tilted backward and chin pointing upward so 
that the tongue does not
 block the throat. The reviver's mouth is then placed tightly over the vic
tim's mouth or nose, with the victim's nostrils or mo
uth held shut. For a small child or infant, the reviver places his mouth f
irmly over the mouth and nose. The reviver takes a deep breath and blows into the victim's mo
uth, nose, or both. If there is no exchange of air, the reviver checks the position of th
e head. If there is still no exchange, the victim should be turned on his side and rapped be
tween the shoulder blades to dislodge any foreign matter that ma
y be blocking the air passages. A chi
ld can be held by the ankles an
d rapped between the shoulder blades. The reviver s
tops blowing when the chest exp
ands, turns his head away, and lis
tens for exhalation. If the victim is an adult, blowing should be vigorous, at
 the rate of about 12 breaths per minute. A child's breaths should be shallower, about 20 per minu
te, and an infant's breaths should come in short puffs. When victim
s vomit, they must be turned on their side and the airway cleaned be
fore continuing artificial respiration. If the victim has had the larynx remove
d, the above method is used, but the reviver must breathe into the stoma (surgical opening made 
in front of neck for breathing). Breathin
g into the subject shoul
d be continued until natural breathing resumes or until professional help
 arrives. Since the heart often stops beating when breathing is interrupted, cardi
opulmonary resuscitationcardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR), emergency procedure used
 to treat victims of cardiac and respiratory arrest. CPR can 
be done in a hospital with drugs and special equipment or
 as a first-aid technique. ..... Click the link for more information. (CPR) is typically administe
red simultaneously. This entails compressing the chest above the heart at 
60 or more thrusts per minute, with two breaths 
being administered after every 15 chest thrusts. See first a
idfirst aid, immediate and temporary treatment of a victim of sudden illness or injury while awa
iting the arrival of medical aid. Proper early measures may be instrumental in saving life and en
suring a better and more rapid recover
y. ..... Click the link for more information. . arti
ficial respiration[¦ärd·ə¦fish·əl ‚res·pə′rā·shən] The maint
enance of breathing by artificial ventil
ation, in the absence of n
ormal spontaneous respirati
on; effective methods include mouth-to-mouth breathing and the use of a respirator. 1. any of va
rious methods of restarting breathing after it
 has stopped, by manual rhythmic pressure on 
the chest, mouth-to-mouth breathing, etc. 2. any method of maintaining respir
ation artificially, as by use of an iron 
lung
My head is still full of all the s
ights and textures of Quilt Market in Kansas City. I'm processing all 
the trends I saw there and considering how they transl
ate to the kind of quilting a
nd fiber art we do here in the Quilting Daily community. One trend that stood out—liter
ally—was dimension in fabric crafts. Fabric designers and fiber
 artists showed finished fabric art projects that were stuffed
, twisted, and shaped into objects. I saw more trapunto i
n modern quilt designs than I have in a while. |Triangular-bas
ed fiber art pyramids by C
. June Barnes. Speaking of modern quilts, even if they
 didn't have dimension, many of these graphic quilts featured hexagons, octagons, 
and triangles in stark 
relief, so they seem to pop o
ut. In quilt art, there are many ways to fold, piece, 
stitch, and manipulate fabric into dimensional shapes. A new book on
 the subject, Exploring Dimensional Quilt Art: Stitch, Fold, Embellish by C. June Barne
s shows you how to create almost any kind of spatial dimension out of a
 stitched or quilted surface. Spatial dimension can be achieved in the
 following ways, writes June: Ma
nipulating the surface of the quilt
ed plane to achieve depth. A
dding to the surface to increase the depth. Manipulating the
 quilted plane or layers through folding, wrapping, curling and so on to ei
ther construct a shape or create depth. Constructing objects through v
arious means, the outer layer being a
 quilted surface. June draws a lot of her insp
iration from nature as well geometry and offers templates, instructions, and examples for 
virtually any kind of dimensional shape you can imagine. Here are her instructions for
 turning a quilted surf
ace into a triangular base (or pyramid). |T
riangular base template from Exploring Dimensi
onal Quilt Art. 1. S
tart with an equilateral triangle th
at has sides roughly four times the finished height yo
u require. 2. Mark the
 centers of each side of the triangle and mark them a, b, and c. 3. Draw a line between thes
e points, creating a triangle 
within the triangle with
 sides a-b, b-c, and c-a. 4. Mark points that are half of the outside points x, y, and z. 5. To con
struct, finish all edges and join sides a-x to a-y, b-y to b-z, and c-z to c-x. Fold po
ints outward along l
ines x, y, and z. These dimensional shapes can be made into all kinds of fiber ar
t, such as containers and vessels. They can be used as embe
llishments (a great way to make us
e of fabric scraps) or joined together t
o make a larger fiber art quilt or sculpture
. Anyone looking to take their fabric art to a new dimension will find inspiration and practical
 advice in Exploring Dimensional Quilt Art. P.S. Have you been adding dimension to your fi
ber art projects? How? Shar
e your experiments with the community below.
Boethius was a good man, but a tyrant was about to kill him. This is not inspiriting and Boethius d
espaired until Philosophy came to the rescue. If you major in philosophy, one thing you can point o
ut to skeptical parents is that if a tyrant impri
sons you, the training will help. Philosophy combined with Christian theology (as it was in Boeth
ius) does help. Christianity provides the hope, da
ta through revelation, and philosophy shows that this hope is rational. Nobody pushed to t
he bottom emotionall
y can use the promise of Disney or any other kind of magic. We need good n
ews as real as the bad news. If hope is not sturdy, then it does no good a
nd philosophy makes hope invincible. Ev
entually, the presumptuous t
yrant killed Boethius, but the 
old philosopher’s hope did not disappoint him. The unjust ruler made Boethius a world class write
r, Boethius is remembered mostly for the book he wrote in prison, and prepared hi
s soul for death. Everyone dies, but the the tyrant’s fool
ishness was to give philosopher t
ime to prepare and so die with dignity. What did Boethius learn
 in prison? Boethius says that he could believe that though the particulars of his
 life made no sense, the pl
an of his life was in God’s hands. At first, the philosopher could not 
see the plan in what was happening to him. Philosophy 
did not come with cheesy chee
r nor with a detaile
d picture of “what G
od was doing.” Giving u
s The Plan in enough detail to “jus
tify” God is impossible to develop for some very good reasons having to do wi
th ethics, philosophy, and science. Ethically, God cannot betray His dealings with a
ny individual to self-justify. Philosophically, God has knowledge tha
t is too extensive to share, but would be necessary for us to learn in order to know His plan.
 This is true, because science reveals a radically interconnected
 world. Instead of attempting the impossible (as Word of Faith preachers do), Philosophy demonstrate
d to Boethius two things: - He could not possibly understand Go
d’s plan. - He reasonably cou
ld trust God’s goodness and so His plan. God knows all, but, thank God, He does not tell a
ll. He knows our innermost hearts and God keeps that to Hi
mself. He is not so insecure that He must tell His dealings with us to justify 
himself to a Twitter atheist. Over time, and time keeps going,
 God heals, mends, and gives hope. Boethius is taught 
that God is timeless. He exists outside of the chronological dimension and so sees
 all in His Now. Today for God is the day of Creation, Fall, Redemptio
n, and Completion. God knows.
 We can freely choose, because G
od is never foreseeing what we do, but seeing.* Philosophy cannot g
ive us the plan, but can p
oint us to the Good, the very nature of God. If we see the
 Good, as Plato suggests in Symposium, and we see Go
d’s nature, then we can trust God. We are told there is a plan to heal the evils 
done by free will and by conting
ency in the natural world. We know God does no
t lie, because God is good. This 
knowledge gives us reasonable 
hope and this substantial hope is the faith that saves. God, have 
mercy on me a sinner. *Start reading a defense of this idea in S
tump and Kretzmann. I was honore
d to hear both philosophers present these ideas. Eleonore S
tump is the very model of a good philosopher.
Build It, and They Will Code: “Hour of Code” Campaign Gets Kids Excited to Program All kids
 care about these days is texting, right? Hour of Code proves the stereot
ype wrong by inspiring kids to code.
 By Betsy Mikel (Contributing Writer, Women 2.0) When you ask kids what they want
 to be when they grow up, it’s unli
kely they’ll respond “computer scientist.” Is anyone surp
rised? According to Code.org, nine out of 10 schoo
ls don’t offer computer science classes. Yet co
mputer science is the top-paying college degree and computer pro
grammer jobs are growing at twice the rate of the national average. To help inspire 
the next generation of tech-savvy computer scientists, Code.org is driving stude
nts and teachers to The Hour of Code website this week. The campaign aims to introduce stu
dents of all levels to coding with fun, interactive tutorials. The
 Hour of Code kicked off the beginning of this 
week as part of computer science education week, and already millions of students from
 kindergarten through 12th grade have log
ged on to learn the basics of computer programming. The “anybody can do it” message behind t
he campaign has been endorsed by President 
Obama, tech moguls Mark Zuckerberg and Bill Gates, celebrities like Ashton Kutcher
, and musicians like will.i.am. “Don’t just buy a new vi
deo game… make one. Don’t just download the latest app… help design it. Do
n’t just play on your phone… program it,” sai
d President Obama. N
o one’s born a computer scientist, but with a little hard work and 
some math and science, just about
 anyone can become o
ne.” The campaign ha
s expanded beyond classrooms with both Apple 
and Microsoft offering sessions in their retail stores. And believe it or not, kids are even lo
gging onto the website at home to learn more. According to the Wash
ington Post, the number of participants in Hour of Code is outpac
ing the organizer’s exp
ectations, and Code.org
 estimates 15 million students will have taken a coding
 course by the end of the week. Even better news is tha
t 60 percent of the participating students so far have been girls, co-founder Hadi Partovi to
ld Washington Post. “Two days ago, the number of girls doing comp
uter science in this country w
as 18 percent,” Partovi said. “This is amazing.” Ha
ve you seen other campaigns or initiatives that get kids excited to code? Betsy Mikel is
 a freelance copywriter and content strategis
t who helps brands, businesses and entre
preneurs tell their stories. A journalist at heart, her curiosity drives her to find someth
ing new to learn every single day. Follow her on Twitter at @bets
ym.
New data from several studies evaluating new techniques for early di
agnosis and treatment of lung cancer are being presented at the first European Multidisciplina
ry Conference on Thora
cic Oncology (EMCTO) in Lugano, Switzerland (1-3 May 2009). "Lung cancer is the 
leading cause of cancer deaths worldwide and also in Europe. One of the rea
sons for this is that sy
mptoms of lung cancer are very often lacking or occur only late in the course of the disease," said
 Prof Rudolf M. Huber from the University of Muni
ch in Germany. "The prognosis of lung cancer patients is very dependent o
n how advanced their disease is. In stage
 I for example, where the tumour has not yet spread, 5-year-survival rates are about 70%;
 whereas in stage IV, where it has metastasised to other parts of the body, survival
 is about 1%. Even for patients with locally advanced tumours, survival over 5 years is only abo
ut 10%. Therefore every effort should be undertaken to diagnose earl
y in the course of the disease." "Dev
eloping better tools for distinguishing between lung cancer and other lung dis
eases will help us offer greater hope 
for patients," added Pr
of Huber. In one study pr
esented at the conference, Italian researchers compare two comput
ed tomography techniques for diagnosing indeterminate
 lung lesions, finding that a form of sing
le-photon emission computed tomography could offer an alternative method in situations 
where positron emission tomography is not available. 
In another abstract, UK scientists report that a new approach to
 diagnosis that ensures a 
patient has had a chest 
CT scan before they attend a clinic has the pote
ntial to reduce the time between their first abnormal chest X-ray and final diagno
sis. Also during the conference, Greek
 investigators suggest that they may have found a new factor that will help i
ndicate a patient's prog
nosis at the time of diagnosis. Their work indicates that the expression of specific cell surface m
olecules on tumour c
ells correlates with clinical parameters. The results "could comprise a promising prognostic factor 
in lung carcinomas, thus presenting exciting possibilities for the fut
ure." |Contact: ESMO Press Office|
 European Society for Medical Oncology
From pv magazine USA Achieving the US government’s decarbonization goals of 10
0% carbon-free electricity generation by 2035 and net-zero economy-wide carbon emissions by 2050 w
ill require the deployment of record levels of renewable technologies. The most common solar technol
ogies to date are crystalline silicon and cadmium tel
luride (CdTe), the costs of which have dropped notedly in recent years. The US Depart
ment of Energy Solar Energy Technologies Office (SETO) said in order to meet 2035 
targets, solar deployment has to double in th
e next three years, and ultimately ramp up to 100 GW by 2035. While most development will
 use silicon and CdTe, SETO sees 
potential in nascent technologies like halide perov
skites. SETO finds that the p
ower conversion efficiencies (PCE) of 
halide perovskites (over 25% in single-junction cells and over 29% in tandem cell
s with silicon) show promise. One advantage of perovski
tes is that they can be easily manufactured in high volume. However, significan
t technological challenges must be addressed before perovskites are ready for c
ommercial power sector markets. In a recent Energy Focus report, SETO covers the c
ritical technical barriers, the commercialization pitfalls
 and opportunities, and efforts to overcome barriers and challe
nges to commercialization.
 It also references SETO-f
unded projects, which can be viewed in the Solar Energy Research Database. One
 of the major barriers is cost. In order for perovskite to be commerc
ially competitive, its levelized co
st of electricity (LCOE) must be
 competitive with that of other technologies. And with
 the cost of silicon and CdTe modules droppi
ng while warranty times are increasing, it will be a steep challenge for perovskite to co
mpete on an LCOE basis. “As
 researchers continue to develop perovskites, there are lessons to be learned from the fate
s of other photovoltaic technologies. SETO is focused on helping
 perovskite photovoltaic companies 
to avoid those pitfall
s and spurring innovation in order to g
et this technology market-ready and accelerate the dep
loyment of solar energy,” said Dr. Lenny Tinker, photovoltaics 
program manager, Solar Energy Technologies Office, US Depar
tment of Energy. Module and cell durability Durability is the largest
 technological risk for perovskite PV. For LCOE met
rics to approach SETO’s 2030 goals 
of $0.02 kWh, perovskite PV will have to last at least 20 years in 
the field, which will requi
re improving its ability to withstand various environmental conditions. Much testing is 
required, yet today’s tests are gea
red toward commercialized PV
 technologies (Si, CdTe, etc.) and are unlikely to capture all
 the failure modes relevant to perovskite modules in the field. Existing tests may al
so be excessive or promote irrelevant or uncharacteristic modes of perovski
te device failure. SETO has published some minimum durability performance targets which,
 if realized, would provide
 strong evidence that a prototype perovskite PV device is ready to enter a
n initial production stage. To this end, SETO funds considerable perovskite durabi
lity work as well as development of test standards. Efficiency, often 
considered a strength of perovskite
 PV, requires significant improvement for large-a
rea devices before they are ready for the commercial arena. While stan
dardized cell and module form factors have yet to be finalized for perovskite PV,
 standards will be a cru
cial prerequisite to scaling the entire industry beyon
d initial demonstration projects. To encourage industry standardization and communication, SETO i
s promoting collaboration among academia, the national l
aboratories, and industry – intended to bring diverse perspectives and 
expertise to bear on common problems, accelerate cycles of learning, and facilita
te transfers of knowledge and skills. Industry consortia like PAC
T and the US Manufacturin
g of Advanced Perovskites (MAP) consortium a
llow companies to connect and share best practices within this industry. The final major tec
hnical hurdle to commercialization is achieving high production 
yield, with narrow distributions in module efficien
cies. Barriers related to proc
ess control and manufacturing y
ield are often undera
ppreciated, and perovskite solar cells have not yet demonstrated broad process flexibility 
in the lab. Cost-effective deposition processes will need to tolerate small variations in 
factors such as deposition tooling conditions, d
eposition environment, and ink compositions.
 SETO has emphasized process cont
rol in perovskite projects across its portfolio, ensuring that chan
ges in performance o
r efficiency are statistically significant and 
robust from a process s
tandpoint, while funding the development of whi
ch processes, when scaled up, might be easier to control. The ability of 
perovskite PV technologies to sec
ure investor financing with low i
nterest rates, may be even more sign
ificant than the technica
l challenges to perovskite PV com
mercialization. Financing will be necessary for scaled
 manufacturing lines and deployment projects. Bankability is directly related to the
 confidence financers have that (1) 
the technical challenges have been solved, (2) the finance
d assets will perform long enough to delive
r a desired return on investment, and
 (3) the liability of product failure and warranty claims is low. Ensuring bankability and durabilit
y standards are met is a SETO priority. These challenges faced by perovskite technology makes it unc
ertain as to if and when it can achieve gigawatt-scale deployment. In the me
antime, there are many different applications that can s
upport higher dollar-per-watt costs and durability i
ssues including transportation, building integrated PV
, military operations, aero
space, and Internet of Things. Sub
stantial capital will be needed to sca
le the perovskite industry, which will come only once investors and financier
s have confidence in the profitability of perovskite manufacturers a
nd the long-term durability of perovskite module technologies. Sustainable growth of the perovsk
ite industry depends on avoiding these pitfalls and requires patien
t and careful investment that corresponds with the 
timeline and magnitude of pro
gress needed to adopt this technology into products. SETO has s
upported a wide range of perovskite startups in various stages of development, through differe
nt programmes, as SETO can support sustainable investment i
n the perovskite PV space by 
providing nondilutive capital to promising early-
stage commercial entities. Startups further along in the product development cycle 
and closer to pilot manufacturing are encouraged to apply for funding through SETO’s Incubator pro
gram. Overall, the opportuni
ties for perovskites as a solar technology are great. It has the potential to develop into a hi
gh-efficiency, low-co
st module technology for commercial power sector deployment, with throughput rates a
nd energy payback times superi
or to state-of-the-art PV technologies. SETO calls for members of the perovskite community increase 
device size, demonstrate relevant outdoor durability, and make processes robust in order to t
ap the potential of perovskite in the s
olar energy sector. This content is protected by copyright and may not be reused. If you want to 
cooperate with us and would like to reuse some of our content, plea
se contact: email@example.com.
- BBC Micro Sinclair’s machine
s would not remain u
nchallenged for long. A 
former Sinclair engineer, Chris Curry, together with a
n Austrian friend name
d Hermann Hauser, cofounded a new competing company called Acorn Co
mputers in 1978. After th
e first experiments, the company took off in 1981 thanks to winning the BB
C’s Computer Literacy Project call for prop
osals. Two models were rele
ased in late 1981: the BBC The BBC Micro, the most successful home computer on the educational scen
e with 1.5 million units sold, ran a 6502A CPU clocked at 2 MHz.
 The space trading si
mulation Elite, programmed by Dav
e Braben and Ian Bell in 1984, was the b
est game for the BBC Micro and was considered to be a “system seller.” It was a ground-breaking ga
me where players were free to play in any way they liked—as an h
onest trader or as a spac
e pirate, for example—while exploring a vast universe. M
odel A and Model B with 16 KB and 32 KB RAM, respectively, with more models to come 
in the following years
. BBC’s educational program made
 Acorn’s latest creation a common tool in all British schools and its success was so great that it
 was used later in similar programs in other Commonwealth countries, such as India, throu
ghout the eighties. Though it was not originally meant to play games, the BB
C Micro would have a relevant role in the industry, mostly thanks to an extremely influential and 
groundbreaking game, Elite, which was first programmed on this system before being ported
 to many others and inspiring countless titles up to this very day. 
Acorn was sold to Olivetti in 1985 but the BBC Micro was produced, in different iterations, until
 1994. - Amstrad CPC Sinclair and Acorn were not the only players on the British home c
omputer scene, though, and Amstrad, an electronics company founded in 
1968 by Alan Sugar, soon played a 
major role. The Color Personal Computer (CPC
) line of computers was launched in 1984 and soon gathered a l
arge following, mostly in the UK and central Europe. Games on the CPC were quite varied and, in th
e mid-eighties, most games in Europe were ported to all of the three main p
latforms of the time: the C64, the ZX Spectrum, and the CPC. Amstrad also bou
ght Sinclair in 1986, continuing the Spectrum li
ne with different iterations that, u
nfortunately, were not able to match the machine’s early successes. The CPC line was ultimatel
y discontinued in 1990 after an attempt to enter the video
 game market directly with a computer-turnedconsole model, the GX4000, that didn’t catch
 much attention. The Z-80 powered CPC 464, the first model i
n the CPC line. It had 64 KB R
AM and an internal cassette deck MSX was the Japanese answer to Am
erican and European home computers. Actu
ally, it was not just a “computer” but a full standard—spanning
 hardware and software—and it was designed so that different manufacturers would 
produce compatible machines on a common architecture. Starting from mid-1983, several Japanese and 
Korean electronics companies,such as Sony, Sharp, JVC, Canon, Toshiba, Sanyo, and Daewoo, started 
developing MSX computers. Despite being strongly support
ed by Microsoft Japan from the very beginning,14 MSX didn’t really succeed in dev
eloping a following in the western A MSX model by Philips
. MSX computers were mounting a Z-80 and had different amounts of
 RAM, from 16 KB and upwards. The last MSX model, the MSXTurboR, was discontinued in
 1995. The beginning of a new, epic adventure: the first Metal Gear game by Hideo Kojima, publ
ished in 1987. Though some earlier games
 did incorporate a stealth-based mechanic, it was perfected 
here and became the main game focus, starting a whole new genre. world, where the market 
was already crowded. However, it 
became a very popular choice in countries 
like Japan and South Korea.
 Overall, MSX compute
rs sold about five million units worldwide. Despite its limited g
eographical relevance, the MSX played an important role in fostering the gaming industr
y in Japan, somewhat like the ZX Spectrum did in the UK. In fact, some of toda
y’s most beloved franchises created by Japanese developers, like Metal Gear, Bomberma
n, and Puyo Puyo, were actua
lly created on MSX computers first before being ported to other systems. - App
le II Even though Apple refused to join the on-going pr
ice war and maintained a steep price tag on its models, the different iter
ations of the Apple II were still able to play an important role across the gaming sce
ne, especially in North America where it often turned o
ut to be the tool of choice by many talented
 developers. The Apple IIe, with 64 KB of RAM and the ability to display both lowercase and upperc
ase letters, was released in 1983 (see the figure on the top o
f page 90) and it was followed by the IIc in 1984, a compact a
nd portable version that doubled
 the available RAM. Overall, including the 16
-bit Apple IIGS released in 1986, the Apple II series was an “all-arounder,” equally at ease i
n the office, in a resear
ch facility, and at home. It ended up selling between five and six million units, leavi
ng a mark in the memories of many. Several seminal games, like Jordan Mechner’s 
Karateka (1984), a side-scroller action game that s
erved as a basis for the later Prince of Persia, were
 originally conceived on the Apple II. The IIe was the Apple II model with the longest li
fespan and it was produced until 1993
Sneezing is a sudden and uncontrollable burst of air that passes throug
h the mouth and nose. Sneezing is caused by irritation
 of the mucous membrane of the nose and throat. Sneezing might be bothersome to people, but it
 is not a sign of anything serious.1 Whenever sneezing, people cover thei
r nose and mouth with a tissue to help preven
t the spread of germs.2 You can sneeze in response to man
y external triggers and allergies, and it is usua
lly not a sign of anything serious.1 S
neezing is manageable, and the remedies
 mentioned below might help in managing and preventi
ng sneezing. Sneezing can also be a symptom of hay fever or allergic rhinitis, bu
t you need to consult with a
 healthcare professional or doc
tor to come up with a diagnosis.3 What Causes Sneezing? A lot of fa
ctors can trigger sneezing. These facto
rs are: - External particles like po
llen, mould and dust - Common cold - Inhaling corticosteroids (present in 
certain nose sprays) - Withdrawal of certain drugs - Triggers like dry air, spicy f
oods and strong emotions.1 Symptoms
 of Sneezing: Sneezing itself can be a symptom
 of health conditions like cold and allergic rhinitis (hay fever). Allergi
c rhinitis is a condition in which the body’s immune system recognises a
nd over-reacts to environmental factors like dust, pet dander and pollen.1,3 Sneezing presents its
elf with: - A sudden burst of air pa
sses through the nose and mouth. - Expulsion of mucous, fo
reign matter and irritants from the nose.4 It is advised to cover your mouth and 
nose whenever you sneeze to help prevent the spread of viruses and germs. Suggeste
d Home Remedies for Sneezing: Here are some home remedies that you can use t
o get rid of allergies that might be causing you to sneeze. Eating honey 
might help with seasonal allergies that might be causing you to sneeze. However, th
ere is a lack of sufficient information regarding honey providing benefits for 
sneezing. Also, you shoul
d avoid eating honey if you are allergic to pollen
. Honey should not be used for children under one year of
 age.5 To use honey, you can mix some honey i
n a glass of warm water and drink it. You can also make honey ginger tea to deal with sneezin
g. In a clinical trial, turmeric was found to be effective in providing relief from symptoms o
f allergic rhinitis like sneezing and nasal cong
estion. Turmeric is also effectiv
e in modulating immune reactions.6 There are several ways in 
which you can use turmeric. You can take turmeric as a part of your daily diet
 by: - Putting turmeric in food items and dishe
s. - You can also make turmeric milk by putting some turmeric in a glass of milk
. You can also add honey for taste. However, if you a
re allergic to pollen, you should avoid p
utting honey. You can drink this turmeric milk as and when required to
 get rid of sneezing. 3. Black Pepper Black pepper is a natural immunomodulator that 
is capable of modifying immune responses. Black pepper might be beneficial for sneezing d
ue to allergies and over-reaction of the immune system (allergic rhinitis).3,7 To use b
lack pepper for allergies, you can make black pepper tea. T
o make the black pepper tea, you can use black pepper, dry ginger, ba
sil and cardamom. Drink this warm black pepper tea a couple of times a day to g
et relief from the symptoms of allergy.8 Ginger c
an help you deal with allergic rhinitis. To use ginger, you can combine the 
ginger powder with turmeric and Ashwagandha powder and mix it well. You can take this powder
 mixture along with milk to manage allergic rhinitis.8 Allergic rhinitis is one of the
 main causes of sneezing.3 Avoiding the exposure to the triggers that might b
e causing you the reactions is the best way to control the sneezing. You can contr
ol your sneezing in some ways that are given below. 5. Using Air Filters Using 
air filters will help you keep the air clean.
 It will also help to av
oid exposure to any particles or triggers that might be causing you to sneeze.1 Clean air wi
ll help you to manage a
nd control sneezing. 6. Proper Washing of the Beddings and Sheets Washing the linens can get 
rid of all the dust and particles that might be causing you to sneeze. It will limit your exp
osure to indoor allergens. It is important to clean all the beddings and sheet
s properly to avoid contact with external triggers. Also, washing linens in water helps in ki
lling the dust mites.1 7. Pet Care Pets might be carrying som
e animal dander (flakes of skin), which can cause an allergic reaction and sneezin
g. If you are allergic to pets, keeping pets out might help to avoid y
our exposure to allergens a
nd pet dander. Also, you can follow 
this practice to further limit your contact: - Wash your hands immediate
ly after petting animals. - You can change your clothing after meeting friends w
ith pets.3 8. Avoiding Outdoor Exposure You can manage your al
lergic symptoms by avoiding the triggers that might be present outdoors. If you are all
ergic to pollen, you shoul
d try to stay indoors as much as possible. Avoid hanging you
r clothing outside, as the 
pollen and dust might stick to them.3 When to Seek Medical Help? You need to con
tact your doctor or healthcare
 provider if your sneez
ing is affecting your da
y-to-day activities. Also, if the home remedies do not work o
ut, you should contact your doctor.1 Sneezing is nothing but a sud
den outburst of air which comes out of the nose and mouth. It can be a symptom of an allergic con
dition called allergic rhinitis or hay fever. Sneezing is the body’s response to expel the irritan
ts from the nasal cavity. You must cover your nose and mo
uth with a tissue when sneezing. It is important to follow good hygiene habits
 to avoid the spread of germs. Limiting your exposure to the triggers that might
 be causing you to sneeze is the best way to get relief from it. For example, you can res
trict your indoor and outdoor exposure to dust mites, pet dander and pollen to g
et relief from sneezing. You can also use honey and turmeric to get rid of sneezing.
Jaakkola, Antti and Yli-Halla, Markku (2008) Thirty years of growing cereal without P
 and K fertilization. In: NJF Report, Nordic Associatio
n of Agricultural Scientists, 4 (2), pp
. 17-19. Over thirty years a significant depletion of P and K in soil occured when the wer
e not given in fertilizers. This caused a reduction in crop yiel
d. An abundant P application exceeding the crop uptake very clearly prevented the yield reduction bu
t did not raise the extractable P concentration in the soil. Severe K def
iciency did not start to appear until 20 years of growi
ng cereal without fertilizer K. K appli
cation compensating for the uptake
 by the crop did not prevent the decrease of its extractabl
e concentration in this soil, but this decre
ase did not affect crop yield. |EPrint Type:||Conference paper, po
ster, etc.| |Type of presentation:||Paper| |Keywords:||fertili
zation, potassium, phosphorus, cereals| |Sub
jects:||Soil > Nutrient turnover| |Research affiliation:||Finland > Univ. Helsinki| |Depo
sited By:||Koistinen, Riitta| |Deposited On:||11 Jun 2009| |Last Modified:||12
 Apr 2010 07:39| Repository Staff Only: item control page
Ibuprofen May Lower Risk of Parkinson's D
isease Study Shows About a On
e-Third Reduction in Parkinson’s Risk for Regular Ibuprofen Users WebMD News Archive How Ibu
profen Might Fight Parkinson’s Other experts note, however, that a 
growing body of research supports the idea that ibuprofen may be uniquely prot
ective of brain cells that produce the chemical dopamine. Lo
ss of those dopamine-
producing neurons is thought to cause Parkinson’s, a disorder in which th
e brain gradually loses its ability 
to control the body’s movements. People with 
Parkinson’s typically experience uncontrollab
le tremors or trembling in the jaw, face, arms or legs; stiffness; impaired coordination and balanc
e; depression and other mood changes; skin problems; constipation; and trouble s
leeping. “The theory behind the inflammation an
d Parkinson’s goes bac
k decades,” says Ali Samii, MD, associate professor of neurology at the Universit
y of Washington. “It’s biologically plausible. It’s not
 a very powerful protector, but i
t does reduce the risk.” Samii published a study in 2
009 finding that ibuprofen, but not other NSAIDs or aspirin, reduced the risk of Parkinson’s in re
gular users by about 25%. “There are animal studies suggesting that the blood-barrier penetr
ations of NSAIDs are quite different from one another,” he
 says. “Ibuprofen itself may have some specific n
europrotective properties.” In a test tube, for example, one study demonstrated that ib
uprofen protected dopamine-producing nerve cells of rat brains from excessive
 stimulation, which can cause cell death. For his part, Gao belie
ves ibuprofen may work
 against Parkinson’s by ac
tivating a signaling pathway called the peroxisome, proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) pathway. 
“That pathway is very 
important for Parkinson’s disease because the PPAR pathway kind of inhibits 
apoptosis,” or cell death, he sa
ys. “It also plays a rol
e in oxidative stress [and] it’s important for anti-inflammatory actions.” Gao thinks that if sc
ientists can discover how ibuprofen may protect brain cells, it may lead to the develo
pment of stronger and more targeted drugs that have the same effect. “That would be
 a very good thing,” he says.
Loading in 2 Seconds... Loading in 2 Seconds...
 ¡ Bienvenidos a Chile! Language and Cul
ture 2009 Memphis in Ma
y International Teachers’ Conference. Presented by Meli
ssa Spain. Chile. Located in South America Situated between Pacific Ocean on the west a
nd Andes Mountains on the right Intensive European flavor – Download Policy: Cont
ent on the Website is provided to you AS IS for your information an
d personal use and may not be sold / li
censed / shared on other websites without getting consent from its author.While downloading,
 if for some reason you are not able to download a presentation, the publisher ma
y have deleted the file from their server. Pres
ented by Melissa Spain settled by Italians, Ge
rmans, English, Spanish Culture is defined as the customary beliefs, 
social forms, and material traits of a racial, religiou
s, or social group ; the characteristic features of everyday e
xistence shared by people in a place or culture. (2009). In Merriam-Webster On
line Dictionary Retrieved February 7, 2009, from http://www.merriam- we
bster.com/dictionary/culture 
Instead of pointing with the finger, which is considered rude or p
oorly educated, Chileans use their lips a
s a signal. The lips are used to point in the direction of inte
rest. The pointing of the lips can 
indicate one specific direction, or the moving of the lips can indicate a larger area. *In rural 
areas, businesses close at lunch traditionally for the siesta. History of the Once : many yea
rs ago, men met at this time to enjoy an alcoholic beverage called Aguardiente.
 In order to conceal the true menu of the get
 together, a code name was formed. The number of letters in the 
word Aguardiente is eleven (once). Thus, tea hour has become known as once. -Empanadas de Pin
o A pastry made of flour, wat
er, butter, and salt, full of beef, cut in cubes wit
h onions, olive raisins, and hard boiled egg that is cooked
 in the oven. -Bistec a lo Pobre Steak w
ith fried potatoes, fried onions, and fr
ied eggs Spicy dish made of poroto beans, corn, and pumpkin A round bun filled with manjar or 
mermalade and covered with pulverized sugar -Mote con H
uesillo Dehydrated peaches with bo
iled wheat or boiled cor
n often in water or peach juice Manjar between two roun
d and flat cookies covered in chocolate. The valley just north of Santiago is kn
own for its vineyards. Shakira won the international award as a teenager co
mpeting in 1992 China, Italy, Estonia KC and the Sunshine Ban
d And many others Previou
s participating artists you may re
cognize include INXS, Duran Duran. Ricky Martin, Nelly Furtado, Earth Wind and
 Fire, Mr. Mister, Eddie Money, Sheena Easton, Air Supply, Journe
y social and political life. Christians celebra
te Holy Week and Easter Sunday In memory of the naval com
bat of Iquique Fiesta de la Iglesia Católica Catholic
 holiday to honor these saints Catholics celebrate the assumption of the Virgin Maria Chile proc
laimed its independence f
rom Spain on Feb. 12 1818. However, Chileans celebrate the independance on S
ept. 18 each year. It is the anniversary of the first joining of the national governm
ent. Honors the army and remembers the victories All Saint’s Day Catholics remember t
he Virgen Maria “The House of 
the Spirits”, (novel) Spain 1982 “Eva Luna'”, (novel) Spain 1985 “Inés of My Sou
l”, (novel) Spain 2006 http://www.isabelal
lende.com/ (English, German
, and indigenous languages also spoken) Other countries that speak Spanish
 Argentina El Salvador Nicaragua Bolivia Guatemala P
anama Colombia Honduras Paraguay C
osta Rica Mexico Peru Cuba Spain Puerto Rico Ecuador Venezuela Uruguay - vacation 
vs. holiday Y’all vs you guys Coke, soda
, pop The tendency with words that end with –ado is to condense the last 
syllable to create the sou
nd –ao. This is a result of Chileans speaking very fast
. Por ejemplo: el tiempo ya está pasao Por ejemplo: se encuentra al ot
ro lao The informal way to address a person in Spanish is “tú.” In this case, verbs are for
med as following: hablar =
 tú hablas vivir = tú vives quere
r = tú quieres However, Chiliea
ns use a modified version of the form “tu”. The from “v
o” is created by conjugating the verb in 
vosotros and dropping the final “s”. The above mentioned examples are converted using “vo” 
hablar = hablái vivir = viví querer = querí ¿Cómo estás? Bien po. ¿Fuiste al mercado? Sí, po a, b,
 c, ch, d, e, f, g, 
h, i, j, k, l, ll, m, n, ñ, o, p, q, r, s, t, u, 
v, w, x, y, z. papa vs papá te (o
bject pronoun) vs té intelligence , distance inteligencia, distancia ar
tist, dentist artista, dentista tourism, optimism tourismo , optimismo animal, cap
ital animal, capital actor, error actor, error university, city universidad, ciudad Worl
d Language Specialist Memphis City Schools 
Oak Forest Elementary
By Amy Goodman Thanksgiving is around the
 corner, and families will be gathering to share a meal and, perh
aps, enjoy another annual telecast of “
The Wizard of Oz.” The 70-year-old film
 classic bears close watching t
his year, perhaps more than in any other, for the messag
e woven into the lyrics, written during the Great Depression by Oscar-winning lyricist
 E.Y. “Yip” Harburg. There’s more to the Scarecrow and the Ti
n Man than meets the eye, and Har
burg’s message has renewed resonance tod
ay in the midst of the greatest financial collapse since
 the Depression. Harburg grew up in New York’s Lower Eas
t Side. In high school, he was seated alphabetically next to Ira Gershwin, and the two began a frie
ndship that lasted a lifetime and helped shape 20th-century American song and culture. Ernie
 Harburg, Yip’s son and co-author of the biography “Who
 Put the Rainbow in The Wizard of Oz?,” told me, “Yip knew poverty deeply 
... it was the basis of Yip’s understanding of life as struggle.” Harburg was deep in debt 
after the 1929 Wall Street crash. Gershwin suggested th
at Harburg write song lyrics. Before long, he wrote the song that
 captured the essence of the Great Depression, “Brother, Can You Spare 
a Dime?” Ernie said of the music industry then: “They only wanted love songs or escape songs
, so that in 1929 you had ‘Happy Days Are He
re Again.’ ... There wasn’t one song that addressed the Depression, in which we
 were all living.” “Brother, Can You Spare a Dime?” became a national hit 
and remains a kind of anthem for hard times, corporate greed and the dignity of working peopl
e: Once I built a railroad, I made it run, made it race against time. Once I
 built a railroad; now it’s done. Brot
her, can you spare a dime? In the 1930s, Harbu
rg became the lyricist for “The Wizard of Oz.” He also added the rainbow to the story, whic
h doesn’t appear in L. Frank Baum’s original 1900 b
ook, “The Wonderful Wizard of Oz.” This led Harbu
rg to write the famous song “Over the Rainbow,” sung by the then-unknown Judy Garland.
 While academic debate persists over whether Baum intended the story
 as a political allegory about the rise o
f industrial monopolists like John D. Rockefeller and the subsequent populist b
acklash, there is no doubt that Harburg’s influence made the 1939 film version more political. The
 film, says Ernie Harburg
, is about common people conf
ronting and defeating seemingly i
nsurmountable and violent oppression: The Scarecrow repr
esented farmers, the Tin Man stood f
or the factory workers, and the Munchkins of the “Lollipop Guild” were the union membe
rs. Ernie recalled: “There was at least 30 percent unemploy
ment at those times. And among blacks and minorities, it was 50, 60 per
cent. And there were bread lines, and the rich kept living their lifestyle.”
 “The Wizard of Oz” was to be “MGM’s answer to [Disney’s]
 ‘Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs,’ ” Ernie recounts. It was initially a critical success, but a c
ommercial flop. Yip Harburg went on to write “Finian’s Rainbo
w” for Broadway. It addresses racial bigotry, hatred of immigrants, easy credit and mortgage fore
closures. In 1947, “Finian’s Rainbow” was the first Broadway 
musical with an integrated cast. It was a hit, running for a year and a half. When Harburg’s unab
ashed political expression made him a target during the McCarthy era, he
 was blacklisted, and was banned from TV and film work from 1951 to 1962. Ironically, in the middle 
of his blacklist period, CBS broadcast “The Wizard of Oz” on television. It broke all viewership 
records, and has been airing since, gaining global renown and adulation. This October, “Finian’s Ra
inbow” began its first full Broadway revival—the first since it was originall
y produced six decades ago—to rave revi
ews. Yip Harburg would be especially proud, no doubt, to know that one of the a
ctors, Terri White, who plays a black sharecropper in “Finian’s Rainbow,” is back on
 Broadway despite having recently been homeless. From sleeping on park benches to starring
 on Broadway once again, this is just the kind of tale that 
inspired Harburg. In response to his blacklisting, Harburg wrote a satiric poem, which re
ads in part: Lives of gr
eat men all remind us Greatness t
akes no easy way, All t
he heroes of tomorrow Are the heretics of today. W
hy do great men all remind us We can write our names on high And departing leave behind us Thumbp
rints in the FBI. Let’s give thanks to Yip Harbur
g and all heretical artists, past and present, who have withstood censorsh
ip and banishment just for talking turke
y. Denis Moynihan contributed research to this column. Amy Goodman is the host of “Democracy 
Now!,” a daily international TV/radio news hour airi
ng on more than 800 stations in North America. She is t
he author of “Breaking the Sound Barrier,” recently released in paper
back.
Shouting from Constricted Lungs, by K.J. Wells, is an important read for poets and t
hose who enjoy reading and studying
 poetry. Exploring a range of subject matter and emotions, Wells takes the
 reader on a journey of the heart, profoundly commenting on important topics like war, dea
th, love, and racism.
 The poet is precise with line length and word choices, and lines of poet
ry are well-thought out. Strong images in the poet’s wo
rk give us artistic beau
ty as well as contextual significance. Poignantly, Wells is abl
e to use her words to re
member those who shouldn’t be forgotten. Among these ar
e family and friends who have shaped her lif
e, especially the poet’s father, Victor Wells. Shouting from C
onstricted Lungs was published by AuthorHouse Books in 
May 2014 and is available on Amazon here.
A cyst is benign, non-cancerous swelling that grows just under the skin
. Cysts are essentially sacs containing fluid. The sac lining or cyst wall develops from skin cells
 or cells around hair follicles. Inside the sac is a thick white or yellow liquid called keratin, 
which is found in skin and hair. Cysts can occur al
most anywhere on the body. They can be termed ‘sebaceous
 cysts’, ‘epidermoid cysts’ or ‘pilar cysts’ depending ontheir location. ‘Pi
lar’ cysts are usually seen in the scalp whereas ‘sebaceous’ or ‘epidermoid’ c
ysts occur elsewhere in the body. Cysts can grow over months or years without c
ausing any problems. As cysts enla
rge, you may feel self-co
nscious of the unsightly swelling, especially if it is in a visible area. Some patients may 
experience symptoms such as discomfort
 or the cyst may ooze pungent fluid. Cysts can also become infected leading to 
severe pain, redness and swell
ing of the area. A skin cyst and a lipoma can be differentiated by 
their features. A skin cyst tends to be firm to the touch, it is attached to the overl
ying skin and may have a ‘punctum’ w
hich is the origin of the c
yst (visible as a small dark dot on th
e skin). A lipoma is an overgrowth of benign fat cells which grows s
lowly over years. Lipomas 
feel softer, lie deeper in the tissue
s and are never attac
hed to the overlying skin. They rarely cause any symptoms and n
ever get inflamed or infected. Only infected cysts may be drained on the NHS. The 
vast majority of cysts are removed in the private sector. Some GPs may offer cyst removal at their G
P practice but will just reoccur if the sac lining is 
not completely removed. Skin cysts can be normally
 removed underlocal anaesthetic. First, the outline of the swellin
g is marked on the skin and the skin incision is marked and orientated to lie in the nat
ural skin lines to conceal the resulting scar. Local anaesthetic is then injected to numb th
e area and the overlying skin is cleaned with an anti-septic solution. A
n elliptical incision is made over the swelling and cyst is dissected free from the surroundin
g tissues and removed i
n its entirety with the sac lining. The wound is then cauterised to stop any bleed
ing and closed usually with stitches an
d a dressing applied. Cysts can become inflamed or infected and become swollen, red and very p
ainful. A course of antibiotics may resolve the infection. Drainage of the cyst may be requi
red if the infection does not settle with an
tibiotics. Cysts can only be drained and cannot be removed whilst infected. The cyst ca
n be formally removed 2 to 3 months later once the infection has fully settled. There wil
l be a permanent scar after removal of your cyst 
and this is unavoidable. Other risks include, wound infection, delaye
d wound healing or wound separation, poor scarring (with lumpy, stretched or pigm
ented scarring) and recurrence of the cyst. Although there may be a small
 dressing following your minor surgery, you should be able to go home straight after the pro
cedure and return to work the next day. Skin s
titches may be required aft
er a small cyst removal and these are removed at 7 days on t
he face and 10 to 14 days on other areas of the body. After 2 weeks, the wound should 
be healed and the scar should be with massaged daily with a 
moisturiser. Although gentle exercise such as walking is fine straight after surgery, more rigorous 
exercise such as swimming and gym classes should be avoided for 3 to 4 weeks after
 surgery to avoid wound infection and wound separation. Make-up sho
uld not be applied to the wound 
on the face for at approximately 3 weeks or until the wound has fully healed to avo
id wound infection. An infected cyst can be drained from aroun
d £450.00 and the cost of cyst removal can be from £650.0
0 but varies dependi
ng on the size, location and wheth
er it is a recurrence.
National Nutrition Month March is N
ational Nutrition Month. T
his year’s theme is “Go Fu
rther with Food.” The focus of the campaign, led by the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics, is to
 encourage healthy eating habit
s and to reduce food waste. For this reason, this is a great time to
 evaluate whether or not you are meeting your nutritional ne
eds. Is it enough? According to the CDC, most Americans are not eating enough fruits and vegetab
les. Fewer than 1 in 10 children and adults eat the recom
mended daily amount of vegetables. Only 4 in 10 children and fewer than 1 in 7 adults eat enough 
fruit. Lack of intake is only part of the problem. Most Americans also exceed the recommended intake
 levels of fats, added sugars, refine
d grains and sodium. According to
 the U.S. Department of Health & Human Services, about 90% of Americans
 eat more sodium than is recommended for a healthy diet. On average, U.
S. adults consume 3,440 mg of sodium per day. If each perso
n were to reduce the amount of
 sodium consumed by 1,200 mg per day, it could save up to $20 billion a year in
 medical costs. Diet 
and physical activity
 are the best preventative strategies to reduce the 
prevalence of chronic conditions such as diabetes, obesity and hypertension
. ChooseMyPlate, is a great reso
urce to ensure we are meeting the daily recommended amounts of key food gro
ups. The amount of each g
roup depends on a persons’ age, sex and level of physical activity. ChooseM
yPlate can be used as visual aid to better understand proper portions and compositions for 
each meal. When preparing meals, it is important 
to choose foods and beverages with le
ss saturated fats, sodium and added sugar. F
ruits & Vegetables Fruits provi
de nutrients such as po
tassium, dietary fiber, vitamin C and folate. Avoid fruit juices and focus instead on whole,
 canned and frozen fruit. Keepin
g fruit in a visible area can
 serve as a visual reminder to e
at your daily recommended am
ount of fruit. Try to incorporate a variety
 of fruit such as dried, frozen and canned
 into your diet. Vegetables are beneficial for your health because the
y contain vitamins and minerals and are usua
lly low in calories. A great way to incorporate veg
etables into your diet is by preparing pre-packaged snacks ahead of time. Although fresh ve
getables are ideal, frozen 
and canned vegetables can be just as nu
tritious. Grains & Protein Whole grains serve as a great source of zinc, magnesium, B vitami
ns and fiber. Be sure to look for the word “w
hole” at the beginning of the i
ngredient list to ensure the grain is in fact a whole grain. Protein sources i
nclude both animal and plant-based foods. Good animal sources for protein inc
lude poultry, meat, seafood and eggs. Protein from plant sou
rces include beans, peas, soy products and seeds. It is important to se
lect lean meats and poultry, as 
well as to eat plant protein foods more often. Dairy foods including milk, y
ogurt, cheese and fortified soy milk provide the necessary levels 
of calcium, vitamin D, potassium and protein needed for good healt
h. It is important to select foods that are low-fat or fat
-free. Be sure to also limit added sugars in flavore
d products such as milks and yogurts.
Advanced Conversion Techn
ologies is the term for tec
hnologies such as gasification and py
rolysis. These could become competitors with Anaerobic Digestion. In fact, a
 number of innovative advanced, high temperature proc
esses for Energy from Waste/ Waste to Energy, are beginning to emerge from
 the far east. These may become more efficient (after further d
evelopment), than conventional processes and can o
ffer a range of different types of energy from bio-based wastes. If so, they may compete with biogas
 plants for their feed biomass. - wood waste and - municipal
 wastes. Woody wastes are not easy to digest through anaer
obic digestion, and these new techniques
 may be much better suited to obtaining effici
ent Energy from Waste outputs from wood waste. “Overview; Conventional technolo
gies; Advanced conversion technologies; Environmental controls; Obstacles to energy fr
om waste; Anaerobic digestion strategy … Choi
ce of an Advanced Conversion Technology Must First Comply 
with UK Waste Regs and the Waste Hierarchy The sub-topic of our meme tod
ay is the UK Waste Regs. and h
ow important it is when pla
nning a UK energy from waste (EfW) project, not to “fall and get hurt by” the Waste Hierarc
hy! The current requirements for compliance of new AD 
plants (including feedstock changes) and new and existing energy from waste facilities, with UK
 Waste regulations need early consideration in any 
EfW project. “Recovering energy from waste is only appropri
ate for waste that cannot be prevented, reused or recycled with less g
reenhouse gas emitted.Energy recovery can be a sustainable option for w
aste that would otherwise go to landfill and create landfill 
methane emissions.” The report below 
defines two Advanced Energy from Waste Conversion Technologies, as
 follows: Gasification i
s a type of advanced conversion that 
produces a combustible gas that is a mixture of carbon monoxide, hydrog
en, carbon dioxide and methane. This gas can be u
sed directly to generate heat and electricity. Alternatively it can be upgraded to an ultra cl
ean gas called syngas. This can be used
 to manufacture either biomethane, which can be injected into the n
ational gas grid, or transport fuels such as hydrogen, et
hanol, synthetic diesel or jet fue
l. The energy given off can
 be harnessed to generate heat and power. Pyrolysis is a type of advanced conversion that 
can be used to produce either a combustible gas, oil or solid char (somet
imes known as bio-coal). In the future, it will be possible to upgrade pyrolysis oil to 
produce petrol and diesel using oil re
fining techniques. The choice of technology for
 any project depends on the type of waste available, local circumsta
nces and finance. via the Gov.UK website here. More information on the different 
technologies is availab
le on the NNFCCwebsite. Advanced Conv
ersion Technology (ACT) Beset by Problems in UK Advanced Conversion Technology
 (ACT), is seen as the next generation of thermal waste-to-energy technologies off
ering many benefits over convention
al thermal treatment methods. In particular, once successfully implement
ed ACT should be more sustainable than present day incin
erators. But, following several high-prof
ile setbacks for ‘advanced conversion technologies’, some are now questioning wh
ether gasification a
nd pyrolysis can ever work at a large scale to treat residual waste. For 
well over a decade now, various forces
 in the UK have been trying to
 develop advanced conversion technology (ACT) for the treatment of residual waste as an alterna
tive to landfill or m
ass-burn incineration. Not Much Real
 Progress on ACT in the UK Since 2003 Way bac
k in 2003, the previous Labour government launched its New Technology Demo
nstrator Programme with the aim of overcoming the ‘real and perceived 
risks’ associated with tec
hnologies like anaerobic digestion (AD), mechanical biological treatment (MBT), mecha
nical heat treatment (MHT), gasification and pyrolysis. Indeed, on
ly one ATT project – the ex-incinerator on the I
sle of Wight that Energos retrofitted with gasification technology – was even abl
e to complete the project to a meaningful degree. But, 
not for long when due to inefficient
 operation and high co
sts it shut down. Rather than directly relea
sing energy, the processes produce ‘syngas’, made up o
f hydrogen and carbon monoxide, which can be used to produce ene
rgy through steam turbines,
 for instance, or can, in theory, be used directly as a fuel, w
hich would result in higher conversion efficiencies. via resource.co This artic
le was first uploaded on 31 January 2013. Late
st update 8 September 2019.
What are the pug puppies? The pugs are also tho
ught to be the part of Am
erican kennel club’s to
y group along with this they are also known as clowns of c
anine world for their great sense of humor. These are Wrinkly, 
short-muzzled face and curled tailed dog’s breed. These
 dogs have a glossy coat of various colors, mostly of black or fawn and have a compact square b
ody with well-developed muscles and big brown 
eyes. These dogs originated in China and letter on in sixteen century they were brought to Eur
ope and now are found almost everywhere in the world. Pu
gs are very sociable and gentle c
ompanion Dogs. Table of Contents - W
hat are black Pug Puppies? - Health Pr
oblems of Black Pug Puppies: - How 
to Train a Pug Dog in 2018? - Obedience Training for your puppy: - How t
o live with pug dogs? - Li
mit the number of treats : What are black Pug Puppies? The 
Black pug puppies have wrinkled
, short-muzzled face and curled tail
 like all other pug breeds except its color. If you talk about the physical
 characteristics of black Pug puppies there are two distinct shapes of ears Rose and button; their
 ears are folded with front edges against th
e side of the head. Pugs have straight and strong legs of 
medium size, well under set legs. Their shoulders are laid b
ack. The black pug puppies usually ha
ve small feet and strong ankles. The black colored na
ils and well split up toes. Pug breed al
ong with black Pug puppies all are suitable for families especially with children b
ecause most of the breeds a
re fond of playing wit
h children. There is no need to fear as pug
 breed are sturdy enough to properly play with children. Health Problems
 of Black Pug Puppies: - Pug dogs are small creative shar
p and intelligent, so they need or attention and care. This breed 
has some health problems; we must know 
to keep them safe and to remain well aware of th
em. - Pugs are very suscep
tible to eye injuries because they lack long snouts and a permanen
t skeletal brow ridge. Eye injuries include proptosis,
 scratched corneas, and painful en
tropion. - Due to having compact breathing passageway they also have breathing d
ifficulties as well as having difficulties in regulating their temperature through evaporation f
rom the tongue by panting. - They need
 more oxygen and cool environment to live in because if their body temperature reaches 
to 108F (42C), it will cause organ failure. Adult age of black Pug br
eed : When will pug stop to grow? When a pug becom
es one year old, he is deemed a
n adult with the achievement of 90% of his / her height
 and 80% of his /her weight. Even at this age, your dog 
may behave like a puppy, but when he/she re
aches the age of 18 months, he/she is the complete adult with his/her maximum height and
 weight. At this age, black pug breeds become muscular an
d no longer will he/she grow. If your dogs get more weight
 after the weight, the dogs have reached this age will b
e considered as unhealthy. How to Train a Pug Dog in 2018? Pug pup
pies at the beginning are very 
energetic and seem running around and playing with e
verything they get it will be funny and entertaining at first but as soon you will be done with th
is enjoyment you will not feel your dog feeling tired and will seem to trou
blemaking for you. To avoid your pretty dog to be a mess you need to train him to be obed
ient. Obedience Training for your puppy: The main quality of pug breed is that
 they in growing age try to learn and shape their habits whether you teach him or he will lea
rn by himself. The black pug puppies as are naughty, so all they will l
earn is bad habits like chewing your shoes entering in thos
e places where you do
 not want him to be and running in your 
house. Tips for training y
our black pug: It is better to teach him whether letting him sp
oil himself and learn all those habits which will cause him to be disliked. Very earlie
r steps you need to teach your dog are - Teach 
him not to bite - Teach
 your puppy to jump on furniture - Teach your dog not to play with fo
od - Teach your puppy not to chew things like shoes Why should 
black pugs breeds be trained earlier? These dogs love to learn when they are still puppies and 
will make this learning’s as their habits. So you have to start teaching hi
m every trick you want him to perform, at 
the very earlier time because when the dog is an adu
lt, it will be hard for him to change his habits and for you to teach him. How to live 
with pug dogs? Black pug puppies ha
ve the flat baby like face and large brown eyes which convince most of 
the people to hug them. These are very cute attractive and sensitive 
creature and need care. For a happy, healthy and attractive puppy you need to take care of th
ese things : Feed them right food: feed your puppy with good quality food. Mea
t is the topmost ingredient in their diet Avoid
 feeding them foods containing high quantity cereal and soya. Limit
 the number of treats : By nature pug breed dogs are greedy and wil
l try to convince you to fe
ed them more .they will overweight if feed too much which will result i
n health problems Black Pug puppies Some more things y
ou need to take care of. - Set ho
use rules for him - Provide basic care for
 pug dogs - Plan to spend more time with puppies - Take pugs to veterinarian for regular chec
k up - Brush your pug daily
Late one night, a man searches for something in a parking lot. On his hands and k
nees, he crawls around
 a bright circle of light created by a streetlamp overhead. A woman passes, stops, takes
 in the scene. “What are you looking for? Can
 I help?” “My car keys. Any chance you’ve seen them?” “You dropped them right 
around here?” “Oh, no. I dropped them way over there,” he says, gesturing vaguely to som
e faraway spot on the other side of the lot. “Then why are you looking here?” The man pause
s to consider the question. “Because this is where the light is.” New research from the Yale 
Child Study Center suggests that many presc
hool teachers look for disruptive behavior in much t
he same way: in just one place, waiti
ng for it to appear. The problem with this strategy (besides it being inefficient), is that, becaus
e of implicit bias, teachers are spending too much time watching black bo
ys and expecting the worst. Lead researcher Walter Gilliam knew that
 to get an accurate measure of imp
licit bias among preschool teachers, he couldn’t be fully tra
nsparent with his subjects about what, exactly, he was trying to study. Implicit bia
ses are just that — subtle, often subconscious stereotypes that guide our
 expectations and interactions with people. “We all have them,” Gilliam says. “Implicit biases 
are a natural process by which we take information, and we judge people on the basis of g
eneralizations regarding that information. We all do it.” Even the most well
-meaning teacher can harbor deep-seat
ed biases, whether she knows it or not. So 
Gilliam and his team devised a remarkable 
— and remarkably deceptive — experiment. At 
a big, annual conference for pre-K teachers, Gilliam and his
 team recruited 135 educators
 to watch a few short videos. Here’s what they told them: Each video included four chil
dren: a black boy and girl and a white …
Table of Contents adjective. ['ˈvɪgɝəs'] characterize
d by forceful and energetic action or activity. Rhymes with Vigorous Ho
w do you pronounce vigorous? Pronounce vigorous as ˈvɪgərəs. US - How to pronounce vigorous in 
American English UK - How to pr
onounce vigorous in British English
 Sentences with vigorous Pruning is an important part of caring for a healthy, vigorous Mandevilla v
ine. Quotes about vigorous 1. There is in every child at every stage a new miracle of vigorous unf
olding, which constitutes a new hope and a new responsibility for all. -
 Erik Erikson 2. Age has no reality except in the physical world. The
 essence of a human being is resistant to the pas
sage of time. Our inner lives 
are eternal, which is to say that our spirits remain as youthful and
 vigorous as when we were in full bloom. Think o
f love as a state of grace, not the means to an
ything, but the alpha and omega. An end in itself. - Gabriel García Márquez, Love in the Time of
 Cholera
Causes and Remedies 
of Canker Sores Canker so
res are a type of ulcer that is seen inside the mouth es
pecially in the inside part of cheeks and lips and rarely on the tongue. They have a whitish gre
y or yellow center and a well defined red border. They are not contag
ious but they may re
occur after healing once.
 These canker sores are painful and may trouble you while taking food and drinks. Causes for 
Canker Sores Canker sores are a result of nutritional deficiency and
 the deficiency of zinc, iron, B12, folic acid causers canker sores. Acidity in the stomach is anot
her reason and food allergies also contribute to the same. Stress, infection d
ue to micro organisms, vigorous brushing, oily and spicy food et
c causes canker sores. Remedies for Canker Sores Dust the
 affected area with bak
ing soda powder or make a
 paste of baking soda wit
h water and apply it on the affected area. Apply this pas
te several times in a 
day. You can also prepare a mouth wash with baking soda and luke warm water and use this to wash
 your mouth. Wash the mouth thoroughly with 
this mouth wash after having food and before going to bed. Grapefruit Seed Extract It has g
ot excellent disinfectant and antimicrobial property. Mix five drops of this liquid with a glass of
 water and wash the mouth with this mixture. This will help you
 to relive the canker sores. Honey and Turmeric Take one teaspoon h
oney and mix it with Â¼ teaspoon turmeric powder. Apply this paste on the ca
nkers. Aloe vera juice is found to be effective f
or canker sores. Apply this juice many times a day and you will
 surely be benefited. Papaya fruits a
re good for treating canker sores. You can a
lso chew fresh papaya leaves which will give you relief from the painful sores. Apply f
reshly cut raw onion in to the affected area and you will get relief. Tea Tree O
il It has antiseptic property and 5
 to 15 % solution can be used for curing sores. Wash y
our mouth several times a day with salt water. This will 
help you to draw fluid from the sore and to help you to heal the sore. Make a tea with three table
spoon dried sage leaves in one pint water. Then wash the mouth with this tea for three or four times
 a day. The drying and astringent property of sage will help you
 to cure the canker sores. You can also a
pply powdered sage leaves on the sores.
When you have an attack, your breath is too short and s
hallow, meaning it worsens further 
symptoms. Once you feel the panic – stand up and start doing some simple stretch
ing. If you manage to squeeze in a yawn, that will help you tame the attack even faster. Stretching
 and yawning instantly helps you relieve muscle tension and interrupt the vicious cycle 
that is just about to roll in full strength. Anxiety disorders increase one's chances
 for suffering from other medical illness, su
ch as cardiovascular disorders, including obesity, heart disease and diabetes. More specificall
y, increased body weight and abdomina
l fat, high blood pressure, and greater levels 
of cholesterol, triglycerides
, and glucose have all been linked to anxiety. While it is still unclear what causes the hig
h co-morbidity between 
anxiety and bad physical health outcomes, research suggests that changes in underlying 
biology that is characteristic of 
anxiety may also facil
itate the emergence for these other physical health outcomes
 over time. For example, changes in st
ress hormones, autonomic responses, as well as heightened systemic inflammation 
are all associated with anxie
ty disorders and negative health outcomes. These shared physiological states sug
gest a shared underlying biol
ogy and that anxiety maybe a whole-body condition. Behaving in an appreh
ensive manner produces the physi
ological, psychological, and emotional state of anxiety. When w
e behave apprehensively (worried, fretful, con
cerned, afraid), the body activates the stress response, 
which secretes stress hormones int
o the bloodstream whe
re they travel to targeted spots in the body to bring about speci
fic changes that enhance the body’s ability to deal with
 danger. The stress respon
se is often referred to as the fight or flight response because of how it equips 
the body to either fight with or flee from danger. As with most behavioral illnesses, the ca
uses of panic attacks are many. Certainly there is evi
dence that the tenden
cy to have panic attacks can sometimes be inherite
d. However, there is also evidence that panic may be a learned response and that the attacks can b
e initiated in otherwise healthy people simply given the right set of ci
rcumstances. Research into the causes of panic attacks is ongoing. M
y grandparents, who I lived with my entire life, just passed away. One in june and t
he other in september. My girlfriend wants to spend the night with h
er sister and the thought of it s
cares me. I fear that I am pushing her awa
y, thus for sending me into a state of anger at myself followe
d by a heavy cold sadness, panic and fear. Then I start to get a small headache, clammy feeling over
comea my body, I start feeling naucious and then the next thing I know, my girlfriend is
 waking me up trying to pick me up off the floor. Is this a simple anxiety attack that will
 go away? Almost everyone expe
riencing symptoms of a panic attack needs evaluation. Un
less the person has a history of having panic attacks, i
s otherwise healthy, and is experiencing a typical attack, they 
must be evaluated promptly by a
 doctor. The level of evaluation depends on many factors. Err on the side of safety w
hen deciding whether to go to a hospital's em
ergency department. Many of us
 may know what it feels like to be nervous before a
 party, or when meeting new people or making an important phone call. Those with social anx
iety disorder have very intense versions of th
ose fears — intense fears of bein
g judged by others that cause them to avoid those kin
ds of situations. For most people, fears of social situations usually subside once 
the intimidating event
 has been faced. But in social anxiety disorder, these feelings are persistent and usual
ly last for at least
 six months. Since panic attacks are caused by overly apprehensive behavior or chroni
c stress, addressing our overly appre
hensive behavior and stress can stop and prevent pani
c attacks, and event
ually, panic disorder. The combination of good self-help information and thera
py is the most effective way of addressing overly apprehensive behavior. Accessing good self-help in
formation and applying it is a good way to reduce stress. 
But over time, you may find yourself experiencing more panic attacks, in a variety of circumst
ances. Most of these will not be entirely unexpecte
d. Most subsequent attacks occur in response to variou
s cues such as entering a crowded
 area; a traffic jam; or simply worrying 
about having a panic attack. B
ut there may still be some surprises: for instance
, you might have a nocturnal panic attack, 
which wakes you out of a sound sleep. Or you might
 find yourself experiencing odd fee
lings of depersonalization as you k
ill some time with frie
nds or colleagues. Antidepressants ar
e used to treat depression, but they can also be helpf
ul for treating anxi
ety disorders. They may help improve the wa
y your brain uses certain chemicals that control mood or stress. You may need
 to try several different antidepressan
t medicines before finding the one that improves your sy
mptoms and has manageable side effects. A medication that has helped you or a close 
family member in the past will often be 
considered.
The Certificate II in Electrotech
nology provides the e
ssential foundations for a career worki
ng in a variety of El
ectrotechnology related roles. Through this course students learn how to sa
fely assemble electronic components, use of routine equipment and customer s
ervice. What you will learn: - Apply environment talk and sustainable procedures
 in the energy sector - Apply OHS regulations, policies, codes and procedu
res in the electronics industry
 - Identify and select components, accessories a
nd materials for energy sector work activities - Carry out routine 
work activities in an energy sector environment - Use of routine equipment, plant, tech
nologies in an energy sector envi
ronment - Solve problems in d.c. circuits Students are also introdu
ced into the principl
es of sustainable energy and have the opportunity to acquire basic skills and knowledge of electrica
l principles that relate to Electrotechnology. This 
includes basic sustainable energy reduction in a domestic premises environment, develop s
kills to apply sustainable energy practices in daily activities and develop knowledge that promotes 
sustainable energy practices in the community. The Certificate II in Electrotechno
logy is delivered over 5 terms. During the first term, all students also und
ertake the Vocational Preparation course.
Kissing under sprigs 
of mistletoe is a well-known holiday tradition, but this little plant’s history
 as a symbolic herb dates back thousands of ye
ars. The Greeks were k
nown to use it as a cure for everything from menstrual cramps to spleen disorders
, and the Roman naturalist Pl
iny the Elder noted it could be used as a balm against epilepsy
, ulcers and poisons. The plant’s romantic overtones most likely sta
rted with the Celtic Druids of the 1st century A.D. Because mistletoe could blossom even d
uring the frozen winter, the Druids came
 to view it as a sacred symbol of vivacity, and they administered it to humans a
nd animals alike in the hope of restoring fertility. Ano
ther famous chapter in mistletoe folklore comes from Norse mytho
logy. As the story goes, when the god Odin’s son Baldur was prophesie
d to die, his mother Frigg, the goddess of love, went to all the animals and 
plants of the natural world to secure an oath that
 they would not harm him. But Frigg neglected to consult with the unassuming mistletoe, so the schem
ing god Loki made an arrow from
 the plant and saw that it was used to kill the otherwise invincible Baldur. According to one s
unnier version of th
e myth, the gods were able to resurrect Baldur from the dead. Delight
ed, Frigg then declared mistlet
oe a symbol of love and vowed to plant a kiss on all those who passed beneath it. Recommended f
or you Mistletoe’s associations with fertility and vitali
ty continued through the
 Middle Ages, and by the 18th century it had become 
widely incorporated into Chr
istmas celebrations. Just how it made the jump from sacred herb to holid
ay decoration remains up for debate, but the kissing tradition appears to have first caugh
t on among servants in England before spreading to the middle classes. As part of the
 early custom, men were allowed to steal a kiss from any wom
an caught standing under the mistletoe, and refusing was view
ed as bad luck. Yet another traditi
on instructed the merrymakers to pluck a single berry from the mistletoe w
ith each kiss, and to sto
p smooching once they were all gone. 
READ MORE: 25 Christ
mas Traditions and Their Origins
In a recent op-ed in Al Jazeera, Caucas
us political analyst Richard Giragosian argued 
that Russia, desperate to
 retain its influence in the former Soviet space, seeks to spark an a
rmed conflict in Nagorn
o-Karabakh (Artsakh). Specifically, he asserted that the mili
tary build-up between Armenia and Azerbaijan has “
greatly enhanced Russian power and 
influence” and that “the l
ooming risk of ‘war by accident’ may be a tempting to
ol for Moscow to conso
lidate its leverage in the region by provoking, promoting and then exploiting
 renewed hostilities.” The move, wrote Giragosian, could “garner greater dividends for Russian hard
 power.” He added that this “stems from the 
Russian desire to further projec
t its power in the South Caucasus by seeking to spark further mil
itary confrontation in order to deploy Russia
n peacekeepers to Nagorno-Karabakh.” The notion that Russia aims to purposefully instigate a war be
tween Armenia and Azerbaijan is 
illogical and conflicts with the basic realities of the Caucasus region. The allegation by Giragosi
an is an extreme version of the idea of Russia using the Nago
rno-Karabakh issue as a “divide and rule” mechanism to
 retain Armenia and Azerbaijan in its sphere of influence. This concept i
s derived from a flawed histor
ical understanding of the origins of the dispute, which attributed the assi
gnment of Nagorno-Karabakh to Azerbaijan to 
the cynical interests of Stalin and So
viet Russia. However, this myth has recently been put to rest. The historical research of the s
cholar, Arsene Saparov, persuasively argued that Nag
orno-Karabakh was assigned to Soviet Azerbaijan based on the fact th
at it was, despite its overwhelming Armen
ian majority, controlled by Aze
rbaijan at the time of Sovietization. Sim
ply put, it was easier for the Bolsheviks to sanction the pre-existing sit
uation on the ground w
hile giving the Armenians the concession of polit
ical autonomy, a solution that sa
tisfied neither side. Stalin, far from the height of his power, played only a 
minor role. This debunked divide-and-rul
e premise notwithstanding, the idea that Russia would want a war in Nagorno-Karaba
kh also runs contrary to Russia’s strategic inte
rests in the region. Russia’s primary interest is stab
ility and security, not war and chaos. This is espec
ially important given Russia’s concerns with the rise
 of Islamic extremism in the North Caucasus. Specifically, Moscow wants to shor
e up its position in the region by having a secure buffer o
f friendly states south of the Caucasus Mountains that will help it conta
in and isolate this threat. Armenia, Russia’s main military al
ly in Transcaucasia, is a key part of this s
trategy. Georgia, which has its own probl
em with Islamic extremists, is likewise an important component of it. How
ever, Russo-Georgian tension, especially during Mikheil Saakashvili’s
 presidency, has hindered these efforts.
 The current Georgian government, led by the pragmatist prime minis
ter Irakli Garibashvili, seeks to mend R
usso-Georgian ties—and with good reason. Georgia’s Pankisi Gorge, home to a Chech
en subgroup known as the Kists, has become a prime target for IS
IS recruiting efforts. One of its n
atives is Omar al-Shishani (born Tarkhan Batirashvili), a veteran of the 2008
 war in Georgia and now a top ISIS commander. This has raised much concern in Mosco
w, which faces a similar problem across the border in the North Caucasus. In a recent 
60 Minutes interview with Charlie Rose, Russian President Vladimir Putin not
ed that “more than 2,000 fighters from Russia and Ex-Soviet Republic
s” are fighting on Syrian
 territory. This only underscores the need for cooperation between 
Tbilisi and Moscow. Both share a common interest in combating the spread of terr
orism and Islamic extremis
m in Pankisi and in the Caucasus generally. Yerevan too shares this interest. In fact, for bot
h Armenia and Georgia, the p
resence of ISIS in the neighborhood has reawakened bad historical memories. Having a la
rge country like Russia nearby to ward off such threats is a m
ajor advantage for the security of both states. Russia’s concer
ns in the Caucasus a
re not just limited to Islamic extremism. Moscow is also troubled by ef
forts, led by the United States, to expand NATO, to promote Western-backed energy projects, and to e
ncourage pro-Western “color revolutions” in 
the region. Russia is perplexed by these moves, whi
ch it regards as a continu
ation of Cold War containment. These measures are also viewed by the Kremlin as c
reating the conditions for instability in th
e region, as the 2008 war in Georg
ia demonstrated. Given this, a war in Nagorno-Karabakh, especially in light of recent events in Ukra
ine and Syria, is the absolute last thing that Russia wants or needs. This expla
ins the reason for the Russian-backed Sochi summit on Nagorno-Karabakh in August 2014. Hos
tilities on the ceasefire line between th
e sides reached alarming levels and Russian President Puti
n sought to calm tensions between Baku an
d Yerevan. If Russia rea
lly wanted a war, it would have permitted the ceasefire violations to escalate until a major confl
ict erupted. Instead, Russia sought to avert that prospect. In Giragosian’s view, “Ru
ssia has largely benefitted from the unresolved nature of the conflict” over Nagorno-Karabakh sinc
e the 1994 ceasefire. This is not the case. Although the
 tenuous ceasefire has maintained some peace and stability in the region
, in the long term, Russia is not interested in seei
ng any renewed hostilities over Nagorno-Karabakh. At the same time, long-term solutions to th
e issue have been elusive; Putin and other Russian officials acknowledge this. Nevertheless, Gira
gosian is correct on one point; Russia has indeed suppl
ied both sides with w
eapons. It is true that Moscow has cautiously supplied weapo
ns to Azerbaijan, in part to entice it to join t
he Eurasian Union. However,
 the political reality is that Armenia remains Russia’s major military a
lly and most reliable partner in Transcaucasia. Ru
ssia’s major military infrastructure in the region, including the 102nd military 
base at Gyumri, is located in Armenia. Furthe
r, Moscow’s military obligations and security guarantees to Y
erevan remain firm. The Russian-Armenian relationship, determined by hard political fac
tors and security interests, is mutually beneficial for both c
ountries. For Armenia, Russia remains the strongest guarantor for i
ts security against potential threats and concerns from its hostile neighbors, Turkey and
 Azerbaijan. For Russia, Armenia remains an important and friendly pillar 
in a strategically vital region. The conclusion of Giragosian’s p
iece is that, “…the danger of a ‘w
ar by accident’ over Nagorno-Karabakh necessitates much more strategic scrutiny and greater attentio
n by the West. This remote and fairly removed conflict can no longer be so
 easily ceded to Russian control. Moscow has been afforded too much room as 
a primary actor for far too long.” This conclusion is based on anot
her troubling premise. The W
est, he wrote, “can no longer so easily cede” the 
Nagorno-Karabakh dispute to Russia. However, is the dispute the 
West’s to “cede” at all? C
onflicts, such as the one in Nagorno-Kara
bakh, are not pieces in a “great game” b
etween the “great powers” on a “grand chessboard” (to quote Zbigniew Brzezinski). Instead, they are
 international disputes that require 
international cooperation, not competition. In addition, the v
iew that the West can “cede” the d
ispute to Moscow also implies that Armenia, Georgia, and other post-Soviet countries are objects
 that can be “ceded” from one power to anoth
er. According to this perspective, Yerevan,
 Baku, Tbilisi, Kiev, Astana, and 
others are not independent political p
layers, whose relations with Moscow and the West are determined by savvy, pragmatic in
terests. In this view, they cannot decide for th
emselves what kind of future or politica
l system they should have. This problematic position also arises from an outlook based on
 international competition, not cooper
ation. However, the Caucasus needs much more of the latter and much less of the former if is to fi
nd peace, security, and stability. The views
 expressed by the author are his own and do not necessarily reflect the opinion 
of The Armenite.
What acidifies and w
hat deacidifies the body? Acidification of the body without two tasks will have a negative impact 
on us. It is worth to
 learn how what we eat affects our body. It is good to know the foods that acidif
y the body and those that can help in its deacidification. Acidification of the body can
 manifest itself in many different ways. The most common symptoms include genera
l weakness, fatigue, and problems such as cold hands and feet. The st
rong smell of sweat and the sour smell of urine are also charact
eristic. Effects of acidification on health Acidification of the body affects our skin, because
 often during acidif
ication a skin change, acne or dryness of the skin may occur. The tongue may have a specific bloom, 
the aftertaste in the mouth will be unpleasant. Often in the case of acidification we also ha
ve problems with caries, britt
leness of hair, nails. 
In addition, bone and muscle pains may also occur. Gastrointestinal and intestinal probl
ems as well as constipation and flatulence often occur during a
cidification. The body's immune system wi
ll decrease significant
ly. We are much more susceptible to infections and cold
s. There may be a problem with allergies
, rashes or urticaria. Orange peel, shadows under the eyes are also the result of the body's 
acidification. Acidification of the body has a negative effect on us without a doubt. Read t
he article and find out how what you eat affects your body. Discover the foods that acidify yo
ur body and those that help you to deacidi
fy it! Acidifying products for the body It is worth knowing what products will acid
ify and the list is really long. These will be fruits
, cereals, seeds, milk products, alcohol, grains, legumes, pasta, animal proteins o
r processed products. I
n particular, however, these will be such nutrients as wheat, white bread, pasta, sweetene
d juices, cranberries, dried plums, blu
eberries, dough and other sweets and pork, beef,
 poultry, mutton or cheese and peanuts, cashew nuts, pistachios, buckwhea
t groats, whole rice, rye and
 wheat flour, ketchup, mustard, marinades, highly processed products with plenty of salt. Product
s deacidifying the body Instead, you will have to foc
us on products that have an alkalizing effect on your body: green vegetables such
 as asparagus, broccoli, fresh spinach, marrow, lettuce, courgette, 
onion, garlic, celery, parsley, h
erbal tea, olive oil, fruit juices (unsw
eetened!).), fruits such as grapefruit, pears, apples, grapes, melon
s, kiwi, lemon and its juice, mango, papaya, lime, watermelon, sweet potatoes, raisin
s, dates, almonds, figs. Consumption of products from both groups will be i
mportant, but first of all the balance of these pro
ducts, which must be about 80% alkalizing and 20% acidifying, must b
e put on the right balance.
Coercion & Choice People have a need to be autonomou
s and it is natural for us to dislike it when people try to control u
s. Most people don't like being told what to do an
d enjoy having choices. Providing students with as much choice as possible will have a pos
itive effect on motivation. The presence of choice changes the 
brain’s chemistry by releasing endorphins, which reduces stress and incre
ase the positive feelings associated with the learning experience. How can choice be 
purposefully built into every learning experience? What 
will convince teachers to learn about the effects of coercion and o
pt instead to build in more choice in an effort to motivate students? - One way people respond to 
coercion is to just comply and do what is necessary. The d
ownside of this may be that they are never inspired to strive for more. - Pe
ople who have a very strong need for autonomy will not comply and may even fail in order to mainta
in control. - Using coercion can h
ave a negative affect on helping kids develop a love for learning. - Clas
srooms that focus mainly on direct instruction often offer learners minimal choice. - L
ack of choice releases norepinephrine which affects attitude and 
motivation. - Too little direction and too much choice = learners will only
 do things that are familiar. - Too little choice and to
o much direction = learners don’t develo
p a passion for learning. Striving for a balance of choice and directio
n is best in a learning en
vironment. - Choice 
= lower stress levels (release of dopamine and serotonin) which in turn results in positive feelings
 about the experience. - Choice theory, developed by William Glasser, MD, is based on the fact 
that people are interna
lly motivated by our needs as opposed to
 being motivated by e
xternal factors. And that all of
 our behaviors serve the purpose of helping meet our human needs: safety & secur
ity, connection & belonging, power & competence, freedom & autonom
y and enjoyment & fun.
 The strengths of the bas
ic needs differ from person to person. Some people 
are more motivated to connect and belong while other
s are more motivated by freedom and autonomy. D
eveloping an understanding of choice theory hel
ps teachers not only develop learning experiences th
at meet standards but also help student's meet individual needs. This will in turn contribute to 
motivation. - Structure the classroom experiences to meet student's needs so that stu
dents will be motivated to learn 
what we are teaching is very 
different from getting them to comply by using external rewar
d systems and coercion. - Limit controlling language and using expressions that offer choice (“
You might like to try...
 Others have found... You may find… ”) puts the control in the learners mind. - Many oppor
tunities for student
s to make simple choices can be worked into the school
 day (order in which to
 complete tasks, where to sit, colors to use, etc.) - There is always more than one
 way to arrive at the same destination. Offering choice often takes the emphasis off the "have
 to" and helps students feel more in control. Make sure students ar
e aware of the choices prov
ided to help them see the freedoms and help to eliminate power st
ruggles. This can lead to increased motivation.
Introduce movement, joy and success into the learning process by buildin
g the physical learning skills most conduci
ve to cognitive, beha
vioral, and academic abilities. Improve general brain functions related to learning, coordi
nation, communication and physical performance. Physical movement activat
es and grows the neural wiring throughout the body
, making the whole body the instrument of learning, not just the brain. F
un-filled games and activities help children 
develop gross motor skills, increase balance, enhance directionality, and stress left/r
ight discrimination. Activities for preschoolers and early childhood are helpful for ski
lls development. Children learn best when they are engaged in an activity, and having fun. Pr
eschool games and exercises help p
romote use of gross 
motor skills. Physical movement activates and grows the neural wiring throughout the bod
y, making the whole body the instrument of learning, not just the brain. Balls and Ball Accessories 
Therapy balls and ball chairs improve posture, sitt
ing tolerance and attention to task. They are the ideal medium for bala
nce, core strengthening and proprioceptive activities. These lightwe
ight mats allow for e
asy roll-up, storage, or carrying. Putty helps 
strengthen fingers and hands while developing g
ross motor and fine motor skills. The Courageous Pacers 
Program is a fun and easy-to-follow program developed to h
elp students become more active.
Commentary: a structure that has a roof and walls and stands more less permanently in one place T
here was a three-story building on the corner. Those are luxury apartment buil
dings. You can park in the lower level of that building complex.
 WordNet 2.0 Sense Numbers: 1 Commentary: the occupants of a building The entire
 building complained about the noise. My building meets in the 
common room for a weekly game o
f scrabble. WordNet 2.0 Sense Numbers: 4 Commen
tary: BUILDING[+event] the activit
y of constructing or building something T
he building of the skyscraper took three mont
hs. During the building we had to take a detour. H
is hobby was boat building. The architect did not 
comply with certain building codes. Protein is a major building block of our bodies. Yo
u'll need a building permit to put up a greenhouse in your backyard. The building materials
 we'll need for our patio include s
and, bricks, and wood. WordNet 2.0 Sense Numbers: 2 Building and stee
l have both lost workers in the last several years. (the industry
 as a whole) They now run a major bui
lding firm in Ohio. Workers in the building trades have rough
 hands. WordNet 2.0 Sense Numbers: 3 Commentary: Automatically generated NOTA sense (bbn)
Mya Maples, left, and Amanda Willi
ams give a presentation on the the 'Tushy Cushy Chair Pad' they 
invented for their science pr
oject at Jessie Beck Elementary School. - Filed Under Jesse Beck Elementary School student Gianna
 Lotito's science experiment with night crawlers resulted
 in an interesting conclusion: Worms have a sweet tooth. After feeding her worms foods like 
bread, fruit and chocolate, Lotito offered her conclusion in 
her presentation, entitled "Worm Food Mystery," to her p
eers at school, part of a two-day science conference that Beck teacher Ryan 
Brock organizes for the school's fifth- and sixth-graders. It's science fair seaso
n in the Washoe County School District, when students like Lotito have the chance to expl
ore their own ideas and pursue ...
A new report by Biffa says there i
s a “once-in-a-generation” opp
ortunity for the UK to make an £18 billion investment in dozens of new onshore recycling and
 energy facilities that will deliver the count
ry’s ambitions for a net zero, circul
ar economy. Improving the recyclability of household packaging, banning plastic waste ex
ports and increasing surplus food redistribution would also play key roles, the report from 
the sustainable waste and
 recycling firm says. The move would unlock 43 mi
llion tonnes of circular raw mater
ials annually to support sustainable manufacturing and consumption in the UK, Biffa sa
ys, creating 16,000 high-quality
 jobs, reducing carbon emissions by up to 7.1 million tonnes a year and improving do
mestic energy security. The report, “From
 Waste Hierarchy to Carbon Hierarchy: Biffa’s Blueprint for Waste Net Zero”, says the UK’s
 waste sector has transformed from a landfill-dependent model to one prioriti
sing recycling and energy recovery. Too many materials ar
e not designed for recyclability, and collections systems are ofte
n inconsistent and unclear. In the report, Biffa called for several changes
 to policy. These included embracing the move from waste hierarchy to carbon hierarchy waste, 
driving more adoption of recycled plastics, considering a moratorium on more energy recovery
 facilities; push for more action to phase out waste export, a
ccepting that landfill will c
ontinue to play a role and championing a zero emissions, competitive colle
ctions market. The report also recognises the “huge progress made”, wi
th UK household waste to landfill falling by 50% from
 2010 to 2020, and carbon emissions reducing by 69% from 1990, making the UK’s waste sector a stan
d-out contributor to carbon reduction. See how Greenzone are doing there bit here In th
e report, Michael Toph
am, Biffa’s Chief Executive Officer, said: “Nonetheless, whilst this transition 
is to be celebrated, the task is nowhere near complete. The UK 
still produces too much waste and doesn’t recycle enough of it. “After nearly two decades of succ
ess, recycling levels in the UK have plateaued at around 44%.
 Too many materials are not designed for recyclability, and collections systems are of
ten inconsistent and unclear. And where we do recycle, we remain too 
dependent on export markets as an end destination for materials.” T
opham says the transformation can be achieved using “existin
g, proven technologies
 and processes, and that there is a vibrant, competitive, s
killed sector with the access to the capital to mak
e this happen”.
Tuesday, January 18, 2011 As I post
ed earlier, this winter is going to be tough on the animals that try t
o survive the winter in the northern Great Plains. W
e are now only 10 inches shy of breaking the recor
d for the greatest amount of s
now during a winter and well above average (the word "normal" doesn't apply to any measures of 
Great Plains weather). Earlier t
his week I was able to get out and watch a rather large herd of
 Pronghorn that has probably made their way from summer ranges in the border r
egion between Montana and Saskatchewan. Much of the herd was gathered in small groups resting
 on the slopes of the south facing hills that span the northern edge of the Milk River
 valley. Others had mov
ed out into the valley itself and were foraging in the deep snow.
 They were working hard to find any forage in the snow, pawing and digging to get down to the gra
ss. They appeared to have hit all the easy patches and
 were working their way to the sage and gr
ass remaining in the areas with deeper snow. Ani
mals were moving back and forth in small groups looking for additional patch
es of forage. This is about as far south as this herd can 
get without crossing some rather large barriers. In the photo abov
e behind the animals you can see a barb wire fen
ce (which can be rather tough barriers f
or pronghorn movement), and probably more detrim
ental, the triple barrier of a major highway (US 2), a major railway,
 and the Milk River itself. Throughout much of the HiLin
e portion of Montana (along Highway 2) these features are very close to ea
ch other and do a pretty good job of limiting the ability of these anima
ls to move further south. Only in one section do these features spread out enough that each of the 
barriers becomes surmountable and animals move south much more freely. Posted by John Carlson at
 7:20 PM
- freely available Challenges 2014, 5(1), 123-137; d
oi:10.3390/challe5010123 Abstract: Urban water systems face su
stainability and resiliency challenges including water leaks, over-use, quality is
sues, and response to drought and natural disasters. Informat
ion and communications technology (ICT) could help address these cha
llenges through the development of smart water grids that network and automate monitoring and contr
ol devices. While progress is being made on technology elements, as a s
ystem, the smart water grid has received scant attention. This article aims to r
aise awareness of the systems-level idea of smart water grids by reviewing t
he technology elements and their integration into smart water systems, discuss
ing potential sustainability and resiliency ben
efits, and challenges relating to the adopti
on of smart water grids. Water losses an
d inefficient use stand out as promising areas for applications of smart water grids. Potential b
arriers to the adoption of 
smart water grids include lack of funding for research and d
evelopment, economic disincenti
ves as well as institutional and political structures that favor the curren
t system. It is our hope that future work can clarify the benefits of smart water grids an
d address challenges to their further de
velopment. Modern infrastructures—including urban water grids—face sustainability
 and resiliency challenges. Change
s in climate and population are making water supplies scarcer in some areas [1,2,3]. Water systems 
often waste substantial quantities of treated water in both the distribution 
system and at the end-u
se location, mainly through lea
ks [4,5]. In many places, such as the Southwest U.S., water must be conveyed over long distan
ces to water treatment plants, resulting in the use of significan
t amounts of energy for pumping . Maintaining 
water quality also remains a challenge in the dis
tribution system, where contaminant intrusion and biofilms reduce water
 quality [7,8]. Problems with end-user plumbi
ng can then further decrease water quality. The 
water distribution system is also vulnerable to targeted attac
ks through water poi
soning, as well as catastrophic water m
ain breaks due to undetected p
ipe deterioration [3,9]. T
echnological revolutions such as electricity and the combustion engine tran
sform economies and soci
eties, including supporti
ng infrastructures supp
lying water, energy, and mobility. Information a
nd communications technology (ICT) has been the dominant technological revolution for
 several decades. In addition to economic and social effects,
 ICT also drives changes in environmental issues a
nd add to the portfolio of potential solutions . The benef
its of ICTs can presumably be enhanced through intentional adoption for sustainability and r
esiliency. Compared to manufacturing and service sectors, adoption of ICT in infrastru
cture is relatively slow. One factor is presumably longer re
placement time scales. The last decade has seen progress in the development of the 
smart electrical grid . Smart electric meters and other two-way communicati
on devices have been installed in homes and businesses to allow electric utilities
 to track electrical usage in real-time. This allows utilitie
s to make continual adjustments to the system. Whether responding to a power transfor
mer failure or trying to help shift electrical usage to off-peak time, the hope is th
at smart electrical grid will make power 
generation and delivery more efficient and resilient and less costly
, while reducing total energy use . Using ICTs in water syste
ms could lead to smart water gr
ids that are analogous to smart electrical grids. A 
smart water grid would integrate sensors, controls, and analytical componen
ts to ensure that water is efficiently delivered only when and where it is needed and h
elp to ensure the qua
lity of that water. Considering smart water grids as integrated systems is just beginning 
to be considered by researchers and 
utilities. In the li
terature, there are efforts to develop and analyze the components of smart water grids. S
ome of the literature focuses on the benefits of specific technologies such as smart pump
s . Other research takes a step
 further and analyzes the implementation of specific smart tec
hnology systems, such as automated meter reading (AMR) and ad
vanced metering infrastructure (AMI) for water
 infrastructure, which are 
two different systems for using smart water meters for res
idential and commercial water consumption billing [14,15]. However, integrative
, strategic, and macro-level discussions of smart water grids are lack
ing in academic and other literatures. This paper begins to fill this gap by presenting a vision of
 how smart technolog
ies could be implemented at several scales and combined to contribute to more sustainable an
d resilient water systems. Additionally, this paper seeks to outline the ch
allenges to the realization of 
smart water grids. It is interesting to note that the smart phone is a marve
l of modern information technology that is owned by hundreds
 of millions of consumers
 around the world. In contrast, m
uch of the technology for water distribution and use is similar to that of fif
ty, or even a hundred years ago. Outside of the water treatment p
lant, there is little use of information technology in water systems. Clearly, there are 
structural differences in markets for personal information produ
cts versus water infrastructure underlying this dramatic gap in adopt
ion. It is important to understand the barriers to the adoption of smar
t water grids and in the following sections, some issues are prop
osed. For this initial work, the focus is on drinking water distribution i
n an urban environment. Future work beyond the current scope would include more environm
ents and other parts of the water cycl
e. For example, agriculture is an important p
art of a complete vision for the smart water grid given its high share of water use
. In Section 2, we pres
ent an overview of the technological elements of the sm
art water grid in a systems context. Section 3 is a summary of sustainability and res
iliency challenges for urban water systems and how smart wa
ter technologies could contribute to addressing these issues. In S
ection 4, example communities
 beginning to implement smart water grids are describe
d. Finally, in Section 5, funding and economic issues we view are important chall
enges are summarized. 2. Overview of Smart Water Grid Technologies and Systems 2.1. Gene
ral Overview A theoretical smart water grid begins at the water sourc
e, where smart meters, smart valves, smart pumps, and flood 
sensors are installed. Water continues on through water tre
atment with more smart meters, valves
, and pumps. Within the city water
 distribution system, there is the addition of wat
er contaminant sensors. At the end-use locations (homes and businesses), en
d-use sensing devices, smart irrigation controllers, 
contaminant sensors, and smar
t meters may be used. Finally, water 
moves through the sewage system to wastewater treatment and final use or d
ischarge, where the same technologies used at the begin
ning of the system are used here too. Figur
e 1 presents a visual depict
ion of a smart water grid. 2.2. Technological Description 2.2.1. Sensing Devices Sensing dev
ices that collect and transmit data
 about the water syste
m on a real-time basis is the foundation of any smart water grid. At the muni
cipal level, the most 
common way to monitor the wa
ter delivery system has been to manually read flow and pressure 
meters, while water contamination is commonly monitored by collecting water samples that 
are analyzed in a laboratory environment. In a smart water grid system, these parameters would b
e collected, stored, and transmitted to a comp
uter by the meter itself, or from a sensor to detect contamination. This
 increases the amount and frequency of information about the system and decr
eases the need for field work. Smart sensors fo
r municipalities include smart water meters for flow, smart w
ater meters for pressure, and contami
nant sensors and biosensors for contamination detection [16,17]. Smart water met
ers have additional advantages over manual meters. One of these adv
antages is increased sensitivity to low water flows, which increases data collection accuracy. Other
 advantages of these more sensitive meters include the ability
 to measure backflow, which can indicat
e a problem in the system. T
hey are also less susceptible to corrosion from p
articles in the system . Whether in a residential, com
mercial or industrial setting, the typical situation for water
 use detection is a singl
e flow meter measuring total water consumption of a 
facility. How total water consumption breaks down for different uses is generally 
not measured. Only measuring total flow has two 
disadvantages: leaks are difficult to detect by metering and users lack informati
on on potential inefficiencies in the system. One option 
is to install additional meters within a facility. With current technology, insta
lling meters for eve
ry fixture would be prohibitively expensive for m
ost end-users. An alternative to installing additional flow meters is to use a device th
at measure pressure waves. Each fixture has a pressure “signature” that propagates through the p
iping system, and a sensitive pressure-gauge can distinguish between t
hese signatures. The HydroSense technology developed by Jon Froehlich and others needs only one
 sensor to determine the disaggregated use of all fixtures (e.g., faucets, toilets, a
nd dishwashers) in a single family home . If a fixture starts to leak, the end-use sens
ing device will pick up this fl
ow as “noise” in the system. For larger end-users, multiple smart meters and end-use sensing devi
ces would be more appropriate. The key point is that a combined flow mete
r and pressure sensor system requires fewer devices, substantial
ly reducing costs. A technological addition to the water system that is useful 
for water storage is the flood sensor. Flood sensors detect strain
 on water infrastructu
re, such as dams, and detect early flooding over flood embankments . 2.2.2. System Contro
ls—Smart Pumps and Valve
s Smart valves and pumps adjust their operations based on environmental conditions
 or signals from sensors. These adjustm
ents can happen automatically or remotely by a human controller. The main benefit 
of smart controllers is increased efficiency. For example, variable 
speed pumps sense wa
ter conditions and will ramp up or down depending on those condition
s. These pumps can also be equipped to sense clogs in the system and respond by break
ing up clogs and/or reversing the flow. This is especially useful for wastewa
ter and raw water conveyance. One manufacturer of a smart pump estimates up to 
70% cost savings ove
r the life cycle of the pump . Smart valves adjust or b
lock the flow of water in pipes based on environmental conditions. They can be used as part of p
ressure management strategies, as a pa
rt of leak detection act
ivities, or to prevent environmental contamination due to combined sewer overfl
ows [21,22]. At the end-use level, sm
art irrigation controllers show promise in helping to save water that is wasted on landscape
 irrigation. Smart irrigation co
ntrollers can receive and/or collect weather data or sense soil moisture levels, as well as
 other parameters, which helps determine proper water scheduling. Usin
g this information, the watering schedule can be updated automatically on a daily bas
is. The valves and pumps that impl
ement the actual watering of the landscape will then turn on and off at best time
s possible . 2.2.3. Data Transmission and Power Once
 data is collected and stored temporarily in a data logger connec
ted to a sensing/control device,
 it needs to be transmitted to a centralized location. Direct line
 transmission via cable is idea
l in principle, because there wou
ld be no practical limits on bandwidth. While direct connection is an
 attractive option within an end-user facility, it may not be practical to hardwire the water deli
very system. Another possibi
lity is to bridge the sm
art meter from the broadband systems of water customers to the
 utility, but this is organizationally infeasible as the utilit
y cannot be dependent on the end-user. These jurisdiction
al and technical issues m
ake wireless data transmission an attractive approach. Because the smar
t water grid is comprised o
f various technologies with different data transmission goals, a variety of wireless 
technologies and protocols are potentially useful. This includes mobile bro
adband (cellular towers), wireless broadband 
(Wi-Fi), personal area networks (device-to-device transmission),
 and satellite communication. For example, AMR, which is a drive-by meter reading system
 via personal area networks, is already becoming a common alternative to manual meter readi
ng for water utilities for their water billing pro
grams. In addition, satellite communication is a 
common technology used by smart irrigation controllers companies to update landscape 
water scheduling on a daily basis. The regularity in spacin
g of smart water meters suggest that a mesh network desig
n, in which each device is a communication hub for neighboring devices, is a promi
sing approach for the smart water grid . An
other promising technolo
gy for smart water grids is a wireless protocol able to broadcast a sig
nal up to 45 miles that is designed specifically for smart meter commu
nication . Another issue that comes up with
 wired or wireless communication i
s the powering of devices. Direct connection to the power grid is fea
sible within a facility, but for devices on the water distribution system, off-grid power may be
 needed. This means that the power needed by the device to use a p
articular wireless technology/protocol wi
ll be an issue, along with the frequency of data collection and transmission by the devi
ce. Current off-grid po
wer solutions include solar panels, water turbines, and long-life batteries [1
8,26,27,28]. The wireless communication protocol developed just for smart grids has 
the advantage of low-power usage . 3. Urban Water
 System Issues and Potential Smart Solutions The section p
rovides an overview of sustainability and resiliency issues for urban water systems: Lo
sses, waste/overuse, quality, energy consumption, disasters and drought. The potenti
al of the smart water grid to address each issue is reviewed, foc
using not only on individual technological solutions, but also t
he combination of technologie
s to create a problem-solving system. 3.1. Water Losses Water losses occur from leaks, unmetere
d consumption (legal or illegal)
, and meter inaccuracies . A multi-city study done by Mayer and DeOreo found that 13.7% of indoor r
esidential water use is due to leaking water fixtures in the U.S. . At the level of the munic
ipality and distribution system, the percent of wa
ter lost varies by location, from 3 to 8 percent in newer cities and 25 to 30 percent in older c
ities . Smart meters and end-use sensing devices can help with leak detection. For example,
 continuous data from
 a residential smart meter could reveal a leak by showing a po
sitive water flow when all fixtures are off. Finding leak
s in municipal water 
supply could also be accomplished through sm
art step testing. Traditio
nal step testing involves manually monitoring the flow rate on a section of pip
e, while manually turning off valves in order to pinpoint the section 
of pipe a leak is located in—a water flow in an i
solated pipe means there is a leak. With a smart step testing syst
em, smart valves and 
smart meters can replace workers out in the field and wou
ld require only one person
 at a computer terminal. The process could even be aut
omated, only requiring huma
n attention if something goes wrong. 3.2. Water 
Waste/Over-Use Water waste/over-use can be defined as consuming 
more water than is needed to achieve the 
desired function, e.g., maintaining landscape, flushing toilets, and cleaning dishes
. Water conservation has seen improvement in recent decades through low-flow fixtures and educati
onal campaigns . An area where water over-use has yet to be addressed is wate
ring of urban landscapes in wat
er scarce regions. Landscape watering is significant in these locations, wher
e more than 50% of the total household w
ater used goes to landscaping, especially in the summer months. Comparing three U.S. cities, a resi
dential home in Las Vegas may use 100 gallons per day of water for outdoor 
uses, while Atlanta homes may use 21 gallons and in Seattle, 9 
gallons . In arid re
gions, irrigation controllers are o
ften used to apply water to lan
dscapes. It is challenging to use traditional irrigation controllers to both sa
ve water and keep plants healthy. Smart irrigation controllers ha
ve the potential to manage this for the homeowner. In studies of smart irrigation control
lers in the Western U.S., on average homeowners 
save water, though there are cases where water
 use increases when the end-user was actually under-watering their landscape before installing 
the smart irrigation controller [31,32]. Currently, smart irrigation contro
llers are not economically pr
ofitable for most homeowners, ev
en in the arid West. There are, however, many areas in the U.S. where the investment in a sm
art irrigation controller would 
be profitable given modest improvements in design and redu
ction in prices . 3.3. Water Quality Water quali
ty monitoring in the water distribution system and end-use pipe s
ystem is usually very li
mited. At the same time, 30 to 60 percent o
f contamination events oc
cur in the water distribution s
ystem. These events are often detected by consumers who have already been exposed. Onc
e the existence of a problem is discovered, it may take days to identi
fy the source of the event in order to fix it . The water quality in the drinking water d
istribution system can be affected by
 several factors including disinfectant depletion (water age), co
ntaminant intrusion from pressure differentials and pipe work (i.e., installation, repair, and repla
cement), biofilms, pipe corrosion, accidents, and terrorism [7,8,34,35
,36]. In a smart water grid, biosensors and multi-con
taminant sensors could alert authorities to pote
ntial problems and their location immediately, while smart meters
 could detect leaks and pressure di
fferentials that cause contaminant i
ntrusion. Smart meters could also help in the monitoring of w
ater age. Lastly, smart valves can isolate contaminated water to pre
vent its spread through the distribution system. 3.4. Energ
y Consumption The most energy intensive portions of water delivery are usually source pum
ping and wastewater tre
atment [6,37]. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) estimates t
hat it takes an average of 1.5 kilowatt-hours of energy to convey, treat,
 and distribute one thousand gallons of drinking water in the U.S. . In t
he southern Los Angeles basin the estimate is 9.9 kilowatt-hours per thousand g
allons . This larger energy consumption is mainly due to the long distances and altitu
de changes for conveying water from source to drink
ing water treatment plant. Undetected leaks and biofilms can also increase energy consu
mption. Leaks in the distribution system result in a los
s of water pressure. Energy is required to rebalance this pressure loss. In turn,
 increasing the pressure actually increases the severity of the leaks, which means more water 
and energy lost . Biofil
ms increase the frictional resistance in
 pipes, slowing the water down, resulting in increased pumping to compensate . If pumping dist
ances in the Southwest U.S. cannot be reduc
ed, the use of smart pumps has the potential to at least reduce 
the energy consumption of pumping water, because they adjust the
ir power levels based on environmental conditions—ramping up when water is f
lowing slowly and ramping down when water is flowing quickly . Smart pumps can als
o be used in the distribution system as part of a smart pressure management program.
 Used in the same way as smart step testing described previously, smart pressure 
management with smart pressure meters, smart valves,
 and smart pumps can reduce pipe deterioration. This saves energy in the long-run, b
ecause leaky pipes lose pressure and require more energy to balance. Lastly, biosensors can loca
te problematic biofilms that slow 
the water flow. Disasters 
that affect urban water systems include w
ater main breaks, weather and geologic events, terrorism, and accidents. Pipes normal
ly break down as they age. Their breakdown can be 
accelerated, however, due to corrosive elements in the water or surrounding the pipe, high water
 pressure, pressure transients, vibrations,
 and traffic loads . Eventua
lly, the stress in the pipes may rea
ch a point that causes a water main break. Weather events, geologic events, terrorism, and accident
s can directly cause damage to water infrastructure or
 damage water infrastruc
ture through a domino effect [41,42]. For example, the t
errorist attack on the World Trade Center caused significant damage to water mai
ns and caused flooding t
hat damaged communication infrastructure . Disasters can also shut down wat
er treatment facilities and prevent the d
istribution of drinking water to taps. Flooding event
s can also overwhelm sewer systems and prevent the proper disposal of wastes. Smart pressure managem
ent could manage and prevent premature pi
pe deterioration that leads to wat
er main breaks. Flood sensors could also detec
t a pipe that is about to break and alert 
authorities. Smart flood management 
could detect flooding and respond to reduc
e the amount of damaged 
caused using flood sensors, smart valves, and smart pumps. Flood sensors
 could detect a pipe break, whic
h would trigger a smart valve to shut off the water supply. Then, a smart pump could pump 
water away from the immediate area. 
Drought is currently a resiliency challenge in m
any areas and climate change may increase the magnitude, frequency, and locations of i
mpact [2,43]. A typical strategy that mun
icipalities employ to deal with short-term drought is to impose blanket, 
outdoor watering restrictions on residential customers . There are several downsides to this stra
tegy. First, it requires the type of enforcement that involves patrolling streets to look at p
eople’s lawns, which is resource intensive, and neighbors reporting each other, which is sociall
y negative. Second, it may result in a loss of a household’s landscaping. This 
type of loss would affect residents unequally, putting a heavier financial burden on lower 
income people. Lastly, it may not be an adequate
 strategy in times of extreme or long-term drought. Long-term drought p
lanning is a complex and is data and modeling intensive. The drought plan for the Sta
te of Arizona cites a lack of sufficient
 data and instruments to predict drought
 and mitigate its impacts. Two of the m
itigation strategies that Arizona has chosen
 include increasing water storage and conservatio
n . The smart water grid enables more creative solutions for dealing with drought. For exa
mple, water restrictions could be managed better with a smart water grid system. Rather than using a
 simple lawn watering restriction that requ
ires field enforcement and the potential loss of landscapes, a more
 flexible approach can be 
taken. If users are able to monitor their own water use on a disaggregated and real
-time basis through the use of smart meters and end-use sensing devices, they can ma
ke decisions about how to save water during a drought. At the same 
time, utilities will be able to monitor
 on a real-time basis and from a r
emote location, what end-users a
re saving water during drou
ght and what end-users are not. Alternatively, smart water grids could
 support temporary drought pricing of water. In the same way that conservation-pr
omoting tiered pricing and smart water meters c
an help people save money and conserve water on a daily basis through onl
ine tools and real-time data, drought pricing ca
n also be supported by smart water grids. Consumers will be able to track their water rates 
and consumption more easily when drought prices a
nd in use. If water utilities want to change the drought pricing in the middle
 of a billing period, consumers will easily b
e able to see this when using their online tools and can adjust th
eir use patterns accordingly. On the bro
ader level of long-term drought and regional water planning, 
water saved from the reduction of water losses could be banked through wa
ter storage projects, creating more water availability during times of d
rought. Additionally, real-time data from smart water g
rids can feed into water resource planning and modeling, making drought and
 long-term water planning a more accurate and dynamic proces
s. 3.7. Summary of Problems Potentially Addressed by Smar
t Water Grids Table 1 summarizes the connections between sma
rt technology and problems address. Components such
 as smart valves have the po
tential to address multiple issues, especial
ly as part of a smart syste
m such as smart step testing. Other components, s
uch as flood sensor, are
 more limited in their contribution
 to a smart water grid. |Component||Problem(s) Directly Addresse
d||Problem(s) Indirectly Addressed||Embedding System for Comp
onent| |Smart Meters||Water losses, water quality, disasters, and drought||Energy consu
mption||Smart step testing and smart pressure management| |Contaminant Sen
sors||Water quality||Energy consumption||Contaminant isolation|
 |End-Use Sensing Devic
es||Water losses and drought||Energy consump
tion||N/A| |Flood Sensor||Disasters||N/A||Smart flood management| |Smart Valves||Water losses, 
water quality, and disast
ers||Energy consumption||Smart step testing,
 contaminant isolation, smart pressure management,
 and smart flood management| |Smart Pumps||Energy consumption and Disasters||N/A
||Smart pressure management and s
mart flood management| |Smart Irrigation Controllers||Water waste/o
veruse||Energy consumption||N/
A| 4. Example Communities that are Developing Smart Water Grids A number of communities have be
gun to install smart wat
er technologies—AMI and AMR ar
e probably the most popular components of the smart water grid that are implemente
d—but not many have begun to plan and implement a comprehensive smart water gri
d. Two communities that are partially on the way to implementing smar
t water grids are Singapore and part
 of the San Francisco Bay Area. In Singapore, large scale research and development funding has le
d to a number of smart water grid projects, including the developm
ent of a laser-based contaminant sensor and a smart water grid in the Singapore business district. T
he smart water grid in the business district tracks pressure, flow, and disinfectant leve
ls in the distribution system. This data is transm
itted via Singapore’s cell network to a computer center. At the computer center, modeling software i
s used on the data to locate problems in the water dist
ribution system. Problems can be pinpointed to within 40 meters and when 
problems are found, an alarm is sent out to the utility [33,45,46]. Singapore has a multistage pl
an for implementing smart water grids in its city . Th
e East Bay Municipal Utility District (EBMUD) is the drinking water a
nd wastewater utility for the eastern part of the San Francisco Bay Area. The EBMUD has sev
eral progressive programs including advanced leak detection device testing and deployment, s
mart irrigation controller rebates for consumers, and smart me
tering in conjunction with web-based tools for
 users. The web-based tools help consumers detect leaks on their property [48,
49,50]. Data from the EBMUD’s pilot AMR/AMI pr
ogram helped the util
ity discover problems on the consumer end of the w
ater system. When these problems we
re fixed, there was an average water use re
duction of 20% . In Singapore, one of the reasons for the ag
gressive pursuit of the smart water grid is due to in
secure water resources. Singapore relies heavily on rainfall to meet its water needs and do
es not have enough land f
or water storage. Whatever reason these communities have for being early adopters of smart water gri
ds, however, they are in the unique position to spread the word about the smart water grid by sha
ring their research and lessons learned with other communities.
 5. Implementation Challenges for the Smart Water Grid 
Assuming that the smart water grid is desirable, in this sec
tion we discuss challenges to its development an
d adoption in a U.S. context. One challenge is obtaining the funding to implement changes, which in
cludes the lack of a federal agency that focuses on water or the smart water grid and political
 and institutional barriers to funding and in
vestment. Other challenges involve economic disincentive
s, such as the lack of new water mar
kets, burdens on smaller utilities, and the cost of actually fixing problem
s found by a smart water grid. 5.1. Funding and Inve
stment The current U.S. 
water system has much deteriorating infrastructure due for 
replacement. It is estimated that it wi
ll take 325 billion dollars over the next 20 years 
to install needed replacements in the U.S. system, including
 new pipes and meters. One side effect of deteriorating infrastructure is water leaks. It is estimat
ed that municipalities lose 3.4 billion dollars eac
h year to water loses, which 
are mainly leaks . Presumably, some infrastructure replacements will include 
upgrades with smart technolog
y, particularly smart water meters. However, many of the benefits o
f a networked system, like a comprehensive smart water grid, requires scale to be re
alized—scale that requires an investment that is difficult in the capital 
constrained environment of most U.S. water utilities. One reason for the lack of investment in s
mart water grids is a lack of a federal agency’s mission to support its 
research and development. The electricity sector is supported by 
the U.S. Department of 
Energy and the U.S. Department of Defense. The societal 
benefits of smart water grids span environmental, energy and security issues, but smart water 
grids have yet to be recognized as important enough to merit sig
nificant federal attention. Another reason for the lack of investment and fu
nding in smart water grids is due to institutional and political legacies in the 
water sector. First, U.S. water utilities were founded on princip
les of delivering an invisible servi
ce at the lowest cost possible . Smart technology can have large upfront costs that man
y water utilities would be reluctant to pay. Second, water prices are often determined by boa
rds whose membership is determined by popular election. Increasing water prices, even f
or sensible infrastructure maintenance, is often viewed negatively b
y voters. The general public tends to take supply of clean and inexpensive water as given. These
 factors constrain availability of
 capital. 5.2. Economic Disincentives Water is a monopoly. While 
smart electrical grid holds promise to create new power markets, this is unlikely to h
appen for the smart water grid. Water resources are unlike smart electrical grids—the a
pplication of smart technology to create producer markets 
does not work for water, because wa
ter is a resource to be distributed (excepting desalinization) rather 
than something to be made (i
.e., electricity) The genera
l lack of incentives to innovate in utilities affec
ts adoption of smart water grid technologies. For any investment in new technology, th
e benefits should outweigh the costs for those paying. With technology that increases resour
ce efficiency, there is typically a threshold payback pe
riod or return on investment. Smaller utilities typically have less capital to invest an
d water utilities tend to be smaller scale than electricity utilit
ies. For end-use, property renters that pay their own utility bills may have leases that are
 shorter than the payback period for investments. In cases where property
 owners’ pay utility bills, property owners may make efficiency upgrades to decrea
se their utility bill or property owners may just pass on increased dai
ly costs of ineffici
ency to renters in their monthly rent. An economic issue for both utilities and consumers is the
 cost and other negative effects of fixi
ng leaks once they are found by a smart water
 grid. Distribution pipes are often underneath other i
nfrastructure, so acces
sing leaks to repair involves removing and repairing this other infrastr
ucture. Repair restricts use o
f those infrastructures, including roads, causing inconvenience to
 residents. At the home level, some leaks such as
 faucet leaks or toilet flapper leaks are easy to repair, but some are not. Leaks that oc
cur underground or behind walls may require professional repair, which can be expen
sive and take many years to pay back to the consumer through lower water bills . Additional
ly, although the utility
 is most often responsible fo
r paying for a smart water grid, many of th
e economic, sustainability, and resiliency benefits of a smart water grid are divi
ded among actors beyond the utility. For example, an end-use sm
art meter helps the utility via autom
ated meter reading and improved flow data, but also p
rovides value to the end-us
er by informing effici
ency actions. Another example is that a more secure water 
system benefits society as a whole, but from the p
erspective of the water utility, it is simply an additional cost. Water infr
astructure changes slowly. Man
y system elements such as pipes, valves and meters last for decades. Barring changes in water regula
tions, keeping the existing system goi
ng can make sense when its components are 
expensive and long-lived. A smart wa
ter grid system needs to achieve a certain size scale to realize many of its benefits, i.e., the
 utility of a network increases with the numb
er of nodes in the network. Incremental replacement
 of failed system elements with smart t
echnology will not realize these 
size scale benefits. This scale issue is qualitatively
 different for newly developing areas installing
 water infrastructure for the first time. Newly deve
loping communities and cou
ntries have opportuniti
es that established ones do not. Potential bene
fits of smart water grids include improved leak management
, water quality monitoring, intelligent drought management, and energy savings. It
 is not yet well understood how different implementations of smart water grids yield what 
benefits and costs. We 
argue that integrative analysis of multiple benefits for larger-sca
le smart water grid systems could help pave the way for the future. F
or example, while viewing the smart water 
grid purely as a way to reduce water
 losses might not justify the investment, con
sidering water losses and drought management mi
ght tip the balance. In addition, as
 the benefits can accrue to a number of different actors,
 e.g., utilities, homeowners, and society 
as a whole, there are important questions as how to distribute costs among bene
ficiaries. Support for research and development is needed to enable such
 work, coupled with cooperation with municipal water utilities. This 
research is supported by the National Science Foundation Office of Emerging F
rontiers in Research and Innovation (EFRI) (grant #0836046). Both authors contributed extensivel
y to this work in all aspects. Eric William’s major contribution was leading the direction of t
he research, while Michele Mutchek’s major contribution 
was executing the research and writing of the
 paper. Conflicts of Interest The authors declare no conflict of interest. - 
Day, H.; Conway, K. Rule 1: No wat
ts no water, Rule 2: No water no watts. In 
Proceedings of 24th Annual WasteResue Proceedings of 24t
h Annual WasteResue Symposium: Where Has All the Water Gone? Wat
er Reuse and Desaliniza
tion: Solutions for the Future, Seattle, WA, US
A, 13–16 September 2009. - Gertner, J. The Future is Drying Up. The New York Times, 21 October 200
7. [Google Scholar] - Hunaidi, 
O.; Wang, A.; Bracken, M.; Gambino,
 T.; Fricke, C. Detectin
g leaks in water distribution pipes. AWW 2005, 29, 52–55. [Google Schol
ar] - Mayer, P.W.; DeOreo, W.B. Residential End Uses of Water; American Water Works A
ssociation: Denver, CO, USA, 1999. [Google Scholar] - McKinnon, S. Cities’ Conservation Goal:
 Patch Own Water Leaks. The Arizona Republic
. 2007. [Google Scholar] - Cohen, M.; Wolff, 
G.; Nelson, B. Energy Down the Drain: The Hidden Costs of California’s Water Supply; Natural
 Resources Defense Council: New York, NY, USA, 2004. [
Google Scholar] - Hall-Stoodly, L.; Stoodly, P. Biofilm formati
on and dispersal and the transmission of human pathog
ens. Trends Microbiol. 2005, 13, 7–10. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef] - Karim, M.; Abbaszadeg
an, M.; LeChevallier, M. Potential for pathogen in
trusion during pressure transients. J. Amer. Water Work. Assn. 2003, 95, 134–146. [
Google Scholar] - Distribution System Water Quality Monitoring: Sensor Technology Eva
luation Methodology and Results; U.
S. Environmental Protection Agency: Cincinnati, OH, USA, 2009. - Williams, E
. Environmental effects of information and communication technologies. Nature 2011, 479, 354–358
. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef] - Werbos, P.J. Computational Intelligence for the Smart Grid—Histor
y, Challenges and Op
portunities. IEEE Computational Intelligence Magazine, 1
4 July 2011, 14–21. [Google Scholar] - The Sm
art Grid: An Introduc
tion; U.S. Department of Energy: Washington, D.C., USA, 2008. - Brzozowski, C. Pu
mp technology. Water Efficiency 2010, 5, 38–41. [Google Scholar] - Bla
ckwell, M. Making Fixed Network AMI an Integral Part of Your Conservation Plan. In Proce
edings of Smart Water Innovations Conference and Exposition
, Las Vegas, NV, USA, 6–8 October 2010. - Kenna
, B. Water Metering and Revenue Protection; Universit
y of Southern Queensland: Southern Queensland, Australia, 2008. [Google Sc
holar] - Maier, R.M.; Pe
pper, I.L.; Gerba, C.P. Environmental Microbiology, 2nd ed.; Elsevier Inc.: Burlington, MA, USA, 20
09. [Google Scholar] - 
Vaseashta, A. Technological Advances Water Safety, Security, and Sustaina
bility. In Proceedings of Second International Congress on
 Sustainability Science and E
ngineering, Tucson, AZ, U
SA, 9–12 January 2011. - Engle, D. Leak busters: Ultra-accurate new residential meters and methods 
can zap “ghost” water accounts. Water Efficiency 2010, 
5, 22–29. [Google Scholar] - Froehlich, J.; Larson, E.; Campbell, T.; Haggerty, C.
; Fogarty, J.; Patel
, S. Hydrosense: Infrastructure-mediated Single-point Sensing of Whole-home Water Activity. In
 Proceedings of UbiComp 2009, Orlan
do, FL, USA, 30 September–3 October 2009. - Introduction t
o Urbanflood. Availa
ble online: http://www.urbanflood.eu/Pages/default.aspx (accessed on 8 June 2012). - R
uggaber, T.; Talley, 
J.; Montestruque, L. Using embedded sensor networks to monitor, control, and red
uce cso events: A pilot study. Environ. Eng. S
ci. 2007, 24, 172–182. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef] - Mistry, P.
 Pressure Management to Reduce Water Demand & Leakage; Wide Bay W
ater Corporation: Queensland, Australia, 2011. [Goo
gle Scholar] - Mutchek, M.A.; Williams, E.D. Design space ch
aracterization for meeting cost and carbon reduction goals: Smart irrigation controlle
rs in the southwestern United States. J. Ind. Ecol. 2010, 14, 727–739. [Google Scholar]
 [CrossRef] - Khalifa, T.; Naik, K.; 
Nayak, A. A survey of communication protocols for automatic meter reading applications. IEEE
 Commun. Surv. Tutorials
 2011, 13, 168–182. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef] - Simonite, T. This 45-mile “Wi-Fi” c
ould connect a smarter power grid. Technol. Rev. 201
1. Available online: http://www.technologyreview.com/comput
ing/37881/page1/ (accessed on 10 J
uly 2011). [Google Scholar] - Britton, T.; Cole, G.; Stewart, R.; Wiskar, D. Remote diagnosis of 
leakage in residential households. Water 2008, 7, 56–60.
 [Google Scholar] - Kenna, B. Water Metering and Revenue Protection;
 University of Southern Queensland: Southern Queensland, Australia, 2008. [Google Scholar
] - Self-sustaining Faucets. Availabl
e online: http://www.totousa.com/Green/Products/EcoPowerFa
ucets.aspx (accessed on 17 July 2011). -
 Olmstead, S.M.; Stavins, R.N. Comparing pric
e and nonprice approaches to urban water conservation. Water Resour. Res. 2009
, 45. [Google Scholar] [Cr
ossRef] - Cooley, H.; Gleick, P.H. Urban Water-use Efficiencies: 
Lessons from United States Cities. In The World’s Water:
 2008–2009; Gleick, P.H., Ed.; Island Press: Washington, DC, USA, 2009; pp. 101–12
1. [Google Scholar] - Mayer, P
.; DeOreo, W.; Hayden, M.; Davis, R.; Caldwell, E.; 
Miller, T.; Bickel, P.J. Evaluation of California Weather-Based “Smart” Irrigation Controller Pro
grams; Aquacraft Inc.: Boulder, CO, USA, 2009. [Google Scholar] - Devitt, D.
; Carstensen, K.; Morris, R. Residential water savings associated with satellite-based ET irrig
ation controllers. J. 
Irrig. Drain. Eng. Asce. 2008, 134, 74–82. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef] - Innovation 
in Water Singapore: June 2011; PUB: Singapore, 2011. - Effects of Water Age
 on Distribution System Water Qua
lity; U.S. Environmental Protection Agency: Washington, DC, USA, 2002. - C
hristopher, G.; Cieslak, T.; Pavlin, J.; Eitzen, E., Jr. Biologi
cal warfare: A historical perspective. JAMA 1997, 278, 412–417. [Google Scholar] [
CrossRef] - Sadiq, R.; Yehuda, K.; Rajani, B. 
Estimating risk of cont
aminant intrusion in water distribution networks using dempster
-shafer theory of evidence. Civ. Eng. Environ. Sy
st. 2006, 23, 129–141. [Google Scholar]
 [CrossRef] - Hallin, B.; Holton, D. Collaborating on Water/Power Efficiency Pr
ograms; Salt River Project: Phoenix, AZ, USA, 2008. [Google Scholar] - Methodology and Ass
umptions for Estimating Watersense Annual Accomplishments. Available 
online: http://www.epa.
gov/watersense/docs/2010-accomplishments-meth
odology508.pdf (accessed on 19 June 2010). - Lahlou, Z
.M. Leak Detection and Water Loss C
ontrol; National Drinking Water Clearinghouse:
 Morgantown, WV, USA, 2001. [Googl
e Scholar] - Barton, A.F.; Wallis, M.R.; Sargison, J.E.; Buia, A
.; Walker, G.J. Hydraulic roughn
ess of biofouled pipes, biofilm character,
 and measured improvements from cleaning. J. Hydraul. Eng. Asce. 200
8, 134, 852–857. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef] - Haimes, Y.; Matalas, N.; Lambert, J.; Jac
kson, B.; Fellows, J. Reducing vulnerability of water
 supply systems to attack. J. Infrastr. Syst. 
1998, 4, 164–177. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef] - O’Rourke, T.D. Critical infrast
ructure, interdependencies, resilience. Bridge 2007
, 37, 22–29. [Google Sch
olar] - Mansur, E.T.;
 Olmstead, S.M. The value o
f scarce water: Measuring the inefficiency of municipal regulations. J. Urban Econ. 2012, 71, 33
2–346. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef] - Arizona Drought Preparedness Plan: Back
ground & Impact Assessment Section; State of Arizona Governor’s Drought Task Force: Phoenix, AZ, US
A, 2004. - Innovation in Water Singapore: March 2012; P
UB: Singapore, 2012. - Innovation in Water Singapore: July 2012;
 PUB: Singapore, 2012. - Weng, K.T.; Lim, A. Pursuit of a Smart Water Grid in Singapore’s Wate
r Supply Network. In Proceedings of the American Water Works Association Sustainable
 Water Management Conference, Portland, OR, USA, 18–21 March 2012. - Har
ris, R. WaterSmart Toolbox: Giving Customers Online Access to Real-time W
ater Consumption is the Right Tool for Water Efficiency S
uccess. In Proceedings of Smart Water Innovati
ons Conference and Exposition, Las Vegas, NV, USA, 6–8 October 2010. - Harris, R. What Sid
e of the Meter Are You on?: Proactively Looking and Listening for Leaks on Pipes and A
queducts. In Proceedings of Smart Water Innovations Conf
erence and Exposition, Las Vegas, NV, USA, 6–8 Oct
ober 2010. - Self-adjust
ing Irrigation Controller Rebate Program. Available o
nline: http://www.ebmud.com/for-customers/water-conservation-rebates-and-services/self-adj
usting-irrigation-controller-rebate-pr (acce
ssed on 6 September 2012). - Rothstein, E.; Galardi, D. Financing Water
 Utilities’ Sustainability Initiatives: Challenging Inst
itutionalized Governance and Market Failures. In Proceedings of American Wa
ter Works Association Sustainable Water Management Conference, Portland, OR, US
A, 18–21 March 2012. © 2014 by the authors; licensee M
DPI, Basel, Switzerland. Thi
s article is an open access article distribu
ted under the terms and conditions of the Creative Commons Attribu
tion license (http://creativecommons
.org/licenses/by/3.0/).
On Wednesday, the U.S. House
 of Representatives introduced a new bill to protect climate refugees. The C
limate Displaced Persons Act, written by Rep. Nydia Velázquez (D-N.Y.), would create a n
ew federal program specifically for refugees displaced by
 climate change. If enacted into law, the U.S. would ta
ke in at least 50,000 climate refugees each year, beginning in 2020. A
lthough long overdue, backlash fro
m both President Trump and the Republican-led Senate may stall any attempts to turn this bi
ll into law. Regardless, this bill provides an important bluep
rint for future policies on climate-related migration. And notably,
 this bill is the first of its kind to address the growing number of migrants displaced b
y climate change. What is the Climate Displaced Persons Act? Written in reacti
on to the rising number of people 
displaced by climate-related catastrophes, this bill would
 create an action plan on how the U.S. can help. S
ince 2009, a climate-related disaster has displaced ab
out one person every second. This r
ate accounts for extreme weather events, famine, drou
ght, and rising sea levels, among other
 climate emergencies. Overwhelmingly, 22.5 million people have be
en displaced due to climate change in the past decade. And the 
UN speculates that num
ber could rise to 200 million forcib
ly displaced people by 2
050. Accordingly, this bill has two major aims. It intends 
to “establish a Global Climate Change Resilience Strategy and authorize the admission of climate-d
isplaced persons,” according to its first draft. In particul
ar, the bill entails the U.S. taking on more responsibility in handling t
he global crisis. It would create a humanitarian program separate from the U.S. 
refugee admissions program, specifically for those af
fected by climate change. The new program would guarantee the same benefits for climate refuge
es. The legislation would also task the Secretary of State with devising a Global Climate Ch
ange Resilience Strategy. This is turn will create a Coordinator
 of Climate Resilience position within the State Department. If made law, the bill wil
l also provide a minimum 
of 50,000 climate migrants resettlement opportunities in the U.S. each year. Ne
w legislation for climate refugees To Rep. Velázquez, immig
ration policy must acknowledge the role of climate change. “If we are going to meaningfully discus
s comprehensive climate equity and climate justice, we 
must inject security assistance and resettlement opportunities
 for climate-displaced persons in
to our conversations,” she said in a press release. So far, the U.
S. has failed in this cause. Just last month, 
President Trump reduced the maximum refugee cap to 18,000 — a new low. And with
 his administration tightening up on immigration of all 
kinds, it’s unlikely he’ll loosen up on climate-related migration, to say the least. But President 
Trump’s refusal to support climate science or immigration has
n’t dissuaded Rep. Velázquez. “Des
pite this Administration’s efforts to strip the world’s most vu
lnerable populations of refuge, America will continue to stand tall as a safe haven for immigra
nts,” she insisted. After its introduction on Wednesday, the House referr
ed the bill to the Committee on Foreign
 Affairs. The Committees on the Judiciary and Energy and Commerce will also 
review the bill before the House continues its deliberation. Democrat 
Edward Markey, a key supporter of the Green New Deal, has introduced a companion bill in the Se
nate.
- By Jonah Lehrer - 
July 28, 2010 | - Wired August 2010 Social relationships are a powerful buffer aga
inst stress. In fact, several studies in Europe and the US have found that people with fewer friend
s and family members they
’re close to have significantly shorter life expectancies. (The m
agnitude of the effect is rough
ly equivalent to smoking cigarette
s.) One likely explanation for this phenomenon is the stress 
of loneliness. Studies of monkeys found that more socially isolated animals
 have higher levels of stress hormones, a reduced immune response, and a higher mortality rate. 
Sleep deprivation is not just about feeling tired. Recent s
tudies have found that even a single night of insufficient sleep — whether it’s spen
t working the night shift or playing World of Warcraft — triggers an automatic spike in stress hormo
nes. And here’s where biology gets cruel: This stress response then makes
 it harder to fall asleep when you actually want to, since your sympathetic nervous system is rev
ving at a higher rate. The result is more stress and mor
e insomnia, which helps explain why sleep problems ar
e such an important risk factor for depression. While obs
erving baboons, Stanford biologist Robert Sapolsky 
found there was a set of personality traits linked reliabl
y with lower levels of stress hormones. One of these was the ability to walk away
 from provocations that might send a normal baboon into a snar
ling hissy fit. Interestingly, this less aggressive personality turned out to be ex
ceedingly effective: The nice baboons remained near the top of the troop hierarchy about thr
ee times longer than the baboons
 who were easily provoked into a fight. They also 
had a lot more sex, which 
is a great stress reliever. 
Numerous studies have demonstrated that even a short training session in meditat
ion can dramatically reduce levels of stress and anxiety. In fact, a recen
t study led by Sian Beilock, a psycholo
gist at the University of Chicago, demo
nstrated that a 10-minute lesson in mindfulness meditation seemed to reduce stress in t
hose taking a high-stakes math exam, leading to a five-point increase on average. She argues
 that meditation allows people to do a better job of n
ot fixating on negative and stressful thoughts, thus 
freeing up brain space to focus on the arithmetic. When paratroopers
 are first learning to parachute, they experience a massive stress response. In fact
, one study of Norwegian airmen found that this
 response started before the jump and lasted for hours afterward. But something interesting happene
d when the soldiers k
ept jumping out of planes. Instead of bei
ng stressed for hours at a time, they showed elevated levels of stres
s hormone only while in midair, which is precisely when th
ey needed it. The chronic str
ess response that causes long-term harm had 
all but disappeared. Alcohol is
 an anxiolytic — it melts away anxi
eties by dampening the response of the sympathetic nervous system and reducing the 
release of stress hormones. That’s why a beer tastes so good after a long day. But don’t g
et carried away: While the moderate consumption of alcohol might reduce 
the stress response, blood alcohol levels 
above 0.1 percent — mos
t states consider 0.08 the legal limit for driving — trigger a larg
e release of stress hormones. Although you might feel drunkenly relaxed, your body is convinced
 it’s in a state of mortal danger. While exercise is remarkably effective at blunting 
the stress response, at least for a few hours, this effect exists only if you 
want to exercise in the first place. After all, a big reason working out relieves
 stress is that it elevates your mood; when mice are forced to run in the 
lab, their levels of stress hormones spike. So when you force yourself to go to the gym and then 
suffer through 30 minutes on the treadmill (lamenting the expe
rience the entire time), you don’t
 reduce your stress levels.
 In fact, you might be making things worse.
Welcome to my weekly fashion blog post. Each week I will discuss a fe
male garment, fashion trend or influen
cer from the age of photography (
1840s through the 20th century). My g
oal is to educate family researchers and genealogists about the cloth
ing worn by our ancestors. Dating photographs is an issue we all st
ruggle with as family archivists.
 Additionally, anyone who writes about their family’s 
history should be aware of the envi
ronment in which their ancestors lived. Period cl
othing is an important part of that e
nvironment from how it affects a person’s movement to their o
verall lifestyle. This week I introduce you to
 the Bolero and Zouave jackets. A Dictionary of Costume and Fas
hion: Historic and Modern describes the Bolero jacket as a “short jacket no 
longer than normal waistline, with or without sleeves. Worn open in front over bodice or blouse
. Spanish in origin.” In comparison, the Zoua
ve jacket is described as a “woman’s short jacket with rounded front, m
ade in imitation of [the] jacket of [the] Zoua
ve uniform. Sometimes sleeveless.” Th
e descriptions of the two types of jackets 
are quite similar. For this post it is not important to know the sub
tle differences between the two styles but rather that t
he style of jacket was 
popular during the Civil War years. One of the reasons beh
ind the popularity was the use of a Zouave style jacket in many volunteer units. The Fr
ench Zouaves were an elite military force during the nineteenth c
entury. Because the Civil War was an overwhelming influence on
 the lives of all Americans (including women), ladies’ fashion adopted some military characteri
stics, including the use of a Zouave st
yle jacket. While the construction of the garment could be quite s
imple, existing examples of these garments show extensive embroidery and trimmings. Many of the pop
ular ladies’ magazines published fashion plates and patterns for Zo
uave jackets. Godey’s Lady’s magazine published many versions of the jacket, including t
his early one from 1859. Below are some plates and patterns from oth
er periodicals of the day. The Library of Congress’ collecti
on of Prints and Photographs has many examples of Zouave jackets, including
 these two photographs from between 1860-1865. Costume historian and 
technician, Quinn M. Burgess, wrote an excellent piece on her website abou
t the Bolero and Zouav
e jackets. Brief article from the Smithsonian on the
 influence of the Zouave on Union and Confederate unif
orms. The Newberry Library and the Terra Foundation have an online exhibi
t “Home Front: Daily L
ife in the Civil War North.” They briefly 
discuss the Zouave soldiers in the Civil War and their influence on fashion. While searchi
ng for additional images, I came across an
 online exhibit from the University of Maryland titled “Woman on the Border: Maryland Perspe
ctives of the Civil War.“ Reddish brow
n silk dress, American, 1860-1865. Met
ropolitan Museum of Art. Accession no: C.I.50.105.16a, b White wit
h black embroidery promenade dress, American, 1862-18
64. Metropolitan Museum of Art. Accession 
no: C.I.60.6.11a, b Yellow pattern silk dress with green trim, French, 1862. Metr
opolitan Museum of Art. Accession no: 1973.244.1a–c Thomas J. Watson Library, The Metropol
itan Museum of Art, Women 1862, plates 92 Thomas J. Watson
 Library, The Metropolitan Museum of Art, Women 1863, plate 8 Unidentified woma
n, c1860-1863. Library of Congress Prints and Photographs 
Collection. Call number: LOT 6286, p. 29 Unidentified soldier with two women, c1861-186
5. Library of Congress Prints and Photographs Collection. Call number: AMB/TIN
 no. 2703 Picken, Mary Brooks. A Dictionary of Costume and Fashion: Historic and Modern. Mineola
, New York: Dover Publications, Inc. 1985. ©2015 Deborah Sweeney Post originally found: 
https://genealogylady.net/2015/09/06/fashion-moments-bolero-zouave-jackets
/
Science is closer than ever to proving that animals are capable of consciously moni
toring their behavior in a manner similar to humans, according to researchers from t
he RIKEN-MIT Center for Neural Circuit Gene
tics. Mysterious circular formations lo
cated off the coast of Denmark aren't the work of aliens so much as eelgrass plants gro
wing amid highly toxic mud, according to 
a team of Danish researchers. Glo
bal health security may be improve
d by the United States teaming up with foreign nations, a report issued by the Centers for Diseas
e Control and Prevention states. Th
e development of an ant colony's different castes is influenc
ed by either novel or highly modified genes, evolution
ary biologists at Johannes Gutenberg Universit
y Mainz (JGU) discovered in a recent study of gene expression. Massive galaxies tha
t formed and stopped producing stars soon after the Big
 Bang were created by violent star formation triggered by the collision of galaxies, a new study pu
blished in the Astrophysical Journal argues. Neanderthals may have gone extinct thousands of yea
rs ago, but their genomic lineage lives on, particularly in sk
in and hair traits, a
 new study published in the journal Nature found. NASA h
as discovered a novel way to measure the melt and growth of ice using a new laser 
technology. That humans are not designed for spaceflight is a reality weighing heavy on NASA s
cientists working against the clock to put astronauts on Mars b
y the 2030s. The discovery that the Black Death and Justinian Plague were caused b
y different strains of the same pathogen suggests a new 
strain of plague could emerge again, researchers warn. Tuesday marks 
the 28th anniversary of the space shuttle Challenger tragedy, an
 event that resulted in the death of seven crew members and a 32-month hiatus in NASA's shuttle pr
ogram. Fire was tamed as many as 300,000 years ago, accordi
ng to the recent discovery of the earliest evidence of repe
ated fire burning in one place over a period of tim
e. Cancer patients undergoing treatment gain key coping ski
lls when they participate in music production, including writing lyrics and produ
cing videos, according to a new study published in Cancer. Los Angeles is especially vu
lnerable to any major 
earthquake that may take place south of the city of almost 4 millio
n, a new method of constructing virtual earthquakes determined. Anci
ent forests may have helped stabilize the Eart
h's carbon dioxide levels and, therefore, its climate, a new study pu
blished in Biogeoscienc
es suggests.
The history of aviation in Texas is the story of industry innovation, record-s
etting achievements, gravity-defying f
eats and the soaring human spirit. Texas has been, and conti
nues to be, a leader in 
manufacturing, hospitality, science exploration and
 scholarship, driving the global economy year after year with new research and billions of dollars
 in revenue. The year 2010 marks the cent
ennial of flight in Texas. Since Frenchman Louis Paulhan's first flight in Texas on February 18,
 1910, Texas has been on the leading edge of aviatio
n. The first U.S. military flight was in March 1910 from Fort Sam Houston, beginnin
g Texas's long tradition of military aviation. The first person to build and fly a 
plane in Texas was L.
L. Walker Jr. in Houston, exemplifying the spirit that has d
riven the aviation industry in Texas ever since.
 Tango Alpha Charlie: Texas Aviation Celebration tells the story 
of Texas aviation -- past, present, and future -- in a special exhibition that will
 brag on the dynamic achievements of Texas aviators, designers,
 manufacturers, and services. Included in the exhibit are 5 large scale mo
dels of aircraft including a
n AT-6 Texan, B-24 Liberator, Southwest Airlines Lone Star One, Moone
y Acclaim Type S, a Bell V
-22 Osprey, and a 1/2 scale Vought F-4
U-4 Corsair. Visitors can try their hand at flying a Curtiss 
Jenny, an AT-6 Texan, and a Bell XV-3 tiltrotor helicopter through 
interactive video simulators. There are over 120 objects in the exhibit sp
anning everything from Benjamin Foul
ois's logbook detailing his first militar
y flights in 1910, flight suits worn by Howard Hughes and Katharine Hepb
urn in the 1930s, astronaut Ed White's 
helmet from Gemini 4, and Jeana Yeager's ponytail from when she cut her hair to reduce weight on
 the non-stop round-the-wor
ld flight of Voyager in 1986, to uniforms from various T
exas based commercial airlines, and a non-ablative rocket engine that will change the futur
e of space travel. With multimedia interactivity, artifacts, original research, and hands
-on experiences for all ages, this exhibition will serve as the next great chapter in the al
ready rich story of Texas aviation. The exhibition is organized by guest curator Barb
ara Ganson Ph.D., a professor of aviation history. Admission to the Museum's exhibits, including
 Tango Alpha Charlie: Texas Aviation Celebration (September 12, 201
0 - January 9, 2011): $7 for adults,
 $6 for seniors/military/college students (with valid 
ID), $4 for youth ages 5-18, free for ages 4 and under. The Bob Bullock Texas State History M
useum is located at 1800 N. Congress Avenue at the cor
ner of Martin Luther King, Jr. Blvd. For more information, 
call (512) 936-4649.
© Photographed July 20, 2015 Erected 1990 by Delavan Historic Preserva
tion Society Delavan, Walworth County, Wisconsin HISTORIC CIRCUS DIS
TRICT This area was a hub of circus activity during the 1847-1895 period when 26 circuses qu
artered in Delavan. The three-story b
rick building, 117 Park Place, 100 feet northeast of this site, was the Park Hotel, built in 1848, w
here many circus performers lodged. In 1874, balloonist Rodley A. Palmer, while making an ascens
ion from this park, struck the cornice of the hotel, sustaining i
njuries that later caused his death. Famed magician-illusionist, Harry Houdini,
 as a 12-year old runaw
ay, slept in the hotel's basement livery sta
ble. The three-story building
 at 124 E. Walworth Avenue, 125 feet southeast of this monuyment, was quart
ers for the 1879 Dr. Ge
orge Morrison Colesium Circus which featured Al and John Ringling as performe
rs. Circus wagon and blacksmith shops were once located adjacent to the park. A watering trough a
t the east end of the park was utilized by various animals. The part 
was the assembly area for many circus parades held in the past. The giraffe on the monument is symb
olic of the many circuses
 that once quartered in Dela
van and nearly 150 members of the 19th century circus colo
ny who are buried in Spring Grove and St. Andrew's Cemeteries. Delavan Historic Preservation Socie
ty The marker is located
 at Tower Park on westbound East Walworth Avenue / County Highway O
 / Wisconsin Highway 11, at its intersection 
with South 4th Street, Delavan, Wisconsin 53115. The marker is at the base of the giraffe. T
he marker and giraffe are visible at the base of the water tower, to the far left. The marker is
 located in historic downtown Delavan, Wisconsin.
Are you worried about a friend or a colleague? Do you think that your friend/colleague is
 feeling upset, stressed, anxious, depressed or has emotional or p
sychological symptoms? Has it been affecting their normal 
functioning for more than 4 weeks? Your friend might be distres
sed – a global term to cover all sorts of psychological problems, me
ntal health problems and issues. Do any of the 
following behaviours describe someone you know? - Looks down a
nd miserable - Tired, or sleepy - Change from their normal physical appearance - Overly sensitive a
nd worried - Changes in mood - Seems different - Suppresses emotion - Chan
ge in sleeping habits, not being able to sleep or can’t wake up - Change in eating habits, less 
healthy patterns - Physical symptoms, e.g. Bowel upse
ts, feeling sick, shortness of breath
, headaches, stomach pain, skin rash - Panic attacks - Chan
ge in their normal behaviour or habits - Lack of inte
rest in things normally interes
ted in - Not answering phone or r
esponding to communication attem
pts - Not engaging much in conversation or discussion - Withdrawing from social activi
ties - Hard excessive partying - Increasing use of alcohol and drugs, coffee, smoking 
- Skipping classes or a deterioration in grades - Self destructive, not caring about them
selves or their safety - 
Not coping with studies - Not coping with normal life event
s
One of the biggest offenders in our diets is an abundance of added sugars. (Find out how
 much sugar is too much here.) But until an "added sugars" category makes 
its debut on the Nutrition Facts Panel (the FDA ha
s started to explore the possibility with a consumer study), it's challenging to know just 
how much added sugar is lurking in your favorite packaged foo
ds. And although more and more food companies are ditching high-fructose corn syr
up, their products aren'
t necessarily sugar-free. In fact, they may contain just as much sugar
 as before, just in a different form. Here are 3 tips to sleuth out how much added
 sugar is in your food--as reported in EatingWell Magazine: 1.
 Read the Nutrition Facts Panel: Under a food label's "sugars" des
ignation, both natural and adde
d sugars are included. Natural sugars (such as lactose in milk and fruct
ose in fruit) are not usually a problem because they come in small doses and 
are packed with other nutrients, which helps sl
ow absorption. 2. Che
ck the ingredient list: All of the following are aliases for added sugar. The higher up on t
he list they appear, the more sugar is in the product. Dextrose, fruc
tose, honey, invert sugar, raw sugar, malt syrup, rice syrup, sucrose, xylose, molasses, corn sw
eetener, fruit juice conc
entrate, high-fructose corn syr
up, brown sugar, corn syrup, glucose, lactose, malto
se, sucrose, evaporated 
cane juice, agave nec
tar, cane crystals, cane sugar, crystalline fructose, barley malt
, beet sugar, caramel. Don
't Miss: Are Some Sugars Healthier Than Others? 3. Compare products: Determine how mu
ch unhealthful added sugar your product contains b
y comparing it to a comparable sugar-free product, such as 
strawberry yogurt to plain yogurt or canned peaches in syrup to canned peaches in juice. (Fin
d out here which healthy-sounding foods aren't actually good for you.) Do you wat
ch your added-sugar intake? By Brierley W
right, M.S., R.D. Brierley's interest in nutrition and food come 
together in her position as nutrition editor at EatingWell. Brierley holds a 
master's degree in Nutrition Communication from the Friedman School of Nutrition Science and
 Policy at Tufts University. A Registered Dietitian, s
he completed her undergraduate degree at the University o
f Vermont. Related Links from EatingWell:
The Center for Integrative Science Learning is about empowering tomorrow’s
 leaders in science, technology, enginee
ring and mathematics (
STEM) disciplines. PBA students and fa
culty work closely with students at Conniston Community Middle School to hel
p create fun and enlightening activities that can lead them on a fu
lfilling path toward careers in STEM-
related fields. Part of the Center’s mission is to 
create classroom learning activities that can be incorpo
rated into the students’ science and math curricula. Such hands-on activit
ies are designed to be engaging and multi-disciplinary so t
he middle school students begin to understand 
the many ways different aspects of science and mathematics intersect. The Center initiate
d 16 multi-disciplinary lab modules in the pilot period alone
, and has seen eight
 other modules developed and approved in collaboration with 
Conniston’s teachers. The Center’s team includes PBA faculty expert in: St
udents who take part in the Center’s offerings can dee
pen their learning experie
nce through after-school clubs. 
The clubs help reinfo
rce STEM concepts the students are learnin
g, and are focused on various t
hemes related to science including forensics
, environmental conservation, acoustics and music. Students have gone on field 
trips to the Lake Worth/Snook Island restoration site, and along with Connis
ton’s Student Government 
Body, other clubs have been
 created including the Physics of 
Catapults Club and the Civic Engagement and the Advancement of
 Science Club. The Center provides professional development initiatives for science and
 math teachers as a way to ensure Conniston students are getting the most relevant
 and current instruction. The professional development takes part in two- and three-day ses
sions through the Center’s Professional Development Institute. Through school assemblie
s and community events, the Center helps to infuse enthusiasm and showcase students’ achievemen
ts. Multiple all-school assemblies at Conniston have been held focusing on the Center’s act
ivities. And at the school’s annual FCAT Night, where parents also learned more abo
ut the Center’s activities and outcomes. PBA student volunteers serve ov
er 500 meals to Conniston students and their parents. The Center’s programs a
re expected to reach all 1,100 Conniston Community Middle School students. Faculty will
 share the Center’s outcomes with Pal
m Beach County, and pr
esent findings in peer-reviewed journals and professional conferences to h
elp create national best practices standards.
Hares and rabbits comprise the family Leporidae. Hares tend to be lar
ger than rabbits, with longer ears and longer hind legs.
 They can run faster than rabbits. Some hares 
may be able to reach speeds of 45 miles per hour. While rabbits are social, hares are often solitar
y animals. Hares live in nests above the ground, while rabbits live in underground bur
rows. Hares are precocial - 
newborns are mobile at birth. Rabbits, on the other hand,
 are altricial. This means that newborns cannot move
 by themselves. A hare that is less than a year old is known as a leveret. The Euro
pean Hare, also known as the brown ha
re, is native to temperate areas in Europe and western Asia. It has als
o been introduced to A
ustralia, New Zealand and the America
s. It eats grasses and herbs in the summer and buds, bark and twigs in winter. 
It sometimes damages fru
it trees. The European hare spends most of 
the day in a form, a hollowed out depression in the grass. It comes out to feed at sunset. The Eu
ropean hare is usually solitary but sometimes feeds in groups. During mating seaso
n in the spring, European hairs can be seen standing on their hind legs and boxing 
with one another (the origin of the phrase mad as a March hare). Female hares box male ha
res, fending off male
s that are too enthusiastic for their tast
es.
Albuterol (Salbutamol Sulfate) What is Albuterol? Albuterol is an inhaled medication
 that is indicated for: - Treat
ing bronchospasm - Preventing bro
nchospasm - Preventing exer
cise-induced bronchospasm - Treating wheezing and chest tightness in those with chron
ic obstructive pulmo
nary disease (COPD) Albuterol is normally taken as one to two inhalations every four to six ho
urs each day. If a patient is to take two puffs, they should wait one full minute in betw
een puffs. Additionally, if they are using another inh
aler, they should wait one minute 
before using the other inha
ler. How does Albuterol Work? Albuterol has 
an effect on beta2-adrenergic receptors. Albuterol’s effect on these adreno
receptors contributes to increased cyclic AMP levels, causin
g the bronchial smooth muscle to relax and 
the inhibition of mediato
r release. This relaxes the muscles in the wal
ls of the lung, opening the airways. This mechanism, therefore, alleviates wheezi
ng, cough, and chest tightness allowing the individual to breathe easier. Side effects of Al
buterol include: - Nausea and vomiting - Anxiety or irritability - Hyperactivity in children - Ir
ritated or dry throat Warnings & Precautions Albuterol can cause paradoxical broncho
spasm like other inhaled medications. This event can be life-threatening.
 If this occurs, stop 
Albuterol right away and start a different therapy. Deterioration of Asthma A patient
’s asthma may deteriorate for hours or days after administratio
n. If an individual requires more Albuterol doses, t
his may indicate that their asthma is becoming destabilized. The p
atient may need to be reevaluated and re
quire a different treatment regimen.
 Specifically, provi
ders should consider ant
i-inflammatory treatment with something like corticost
eroids. Beta-adrenergic agonist bronchodilators, such as Albuterol, alo
ne may not provide enough asthma relief. If this is the case, providers sh
ould consider using adjunct anti-inflammat
ory agents such as corticosteroids
. Beta2-adrenergic agonists can cause certain cardiovascular effects. These effects can inclu
de changes to blood pressure or pulse rate. If this happens, providers should stop therapy
 with Albuterol. Beta-agonists have also demonstrated electrocardiogram (ECG) alterations. There
fore, Albuterol and other sympathomimetic agents should 
be used with caution in those that have cardiovascular disorders. In particul
ar, those with cardiac arrhythmias, hypertensio
n, and coronary insufficiency should use cau
tion. Beta-agonists, 
such as Albuterol, can cause hypokalemia. These changes can lead to cardiovascular events. Ho
wever, decreases in potassium levels are usually transie
nt and do not necessitate supplementation. Albuterol has been shown to ca
use hypersensitivity events such
 as rash, angioedema, hypotension, an
d bronchospasm. Therapy with sympathomimetic amines such as Albuterol should be monitored 
in those with certain conditions. These conditions include those with diabetes mellitus, convu
lsive disorders, and 
hyperthyroidism. Additionally, large doses of albuterol
 have been shown to exacerbate diabetes mellitus and ketoacidosis. I
nhaled sympathomimetic drugs have been shown to 
cause death when used at doses that exceed what is recommended. The mec
hanism causing this is unknown. However, cardiac arrest and hypoxia are potential sources
. Beta-adrenergic Receptor Blocking Agents Beta-blockers stop beta-agonist effects on th
e pulmonary system. Additionally, they may cause serious bronchospasm i
n those with asthma. Any patient with asthma should avoid beta-blockers. If 
necessary, providers can consider cardio-selective beta-blockers but should
 still use caution. Beta-agonists, such as salmeterol, can worsen hypokal
emia and/or ECG changes caused by non-potassium-sparing diuretics like 
thiazide or loop diuretics. Providers should use caution when prescribi
ng Albuterol in patien
ts on these types of diuretics. Tricyclic Antidepressants (TCAs) and Monoamine Oxidas
e Inhibitors (MAOIs) Providers should use caution when prescribing Albuterol with MA
OIs or TCAs. Salbutamol’s effect on the vascu
lar system can be increased by these types of 
medications. In one study, serum digoxin levels decreased after ora
l and intravenous administra
tion with salbutamol. Providers, therefore, should carefully monitor serum digoxin level
s in those that are taking digoxin concomitantly with albuterol. Frequently Asked
 Questions
In 1995, World Bank Vice President Ismail Serageldin said, "the wars of the next century will be
 fought over water" [source: Village Voice]. The 
last war fought over water was 4,500 years ago in Mesopotamia , but other water
 conflicts have broken out sinc
e [source: Leslie]. The bloody conflict in Darfur, Sud
an, that began in 2003 and killed as many as 400,000 Africans, started, in
 part, over access to a diminishing water supply [source: The Guardian]. The Darfur conflict be
gan locally and grew to encompass a region. In oth
er regions, water may also strain relations between neighboring countri
es. Water is spread acro
ss geographic boundaries, which makes it difficult to d
etermine ownership. Because nations may share a common water supply, animosity can grow over a
ccess to it, especially where it is perceived by one group that another
 is demanding more from the supply. This phenomenon is not limited to regions 
where many countries are situated near one another, but in regions of the United States
 as well. In October 2007, a 20-year-old dis
pute over water rights -- which some call a water war -- between the states of Alabama, Flori
da and Georgia flared up. When the available 
water that supplies Atlanta
's 4.5 million residents, as well as parts of Alabama and Florida, began to diminish due to a
 severe drought, tensions flared
 over the rights to the water supply. While the s
tates' National Guards didn't confront each other, the governors engage
d in a publicity war, exchanging words instead o
f bullets. Water is inequitably dispersed on a global level. While developing nations scram
ble to provide their populations with water, they usually end up paying more
 for it, since they must take greater
 measures to get it. Developed countries can afford infr
astructure that can deliver water cheaply and effective
ly to residents. This makes water seem cheaper and less valuable to the people who liv
e there. While it takes about 12 gallons per day to sustain
 a human (this figure takes
 into account all uses 
for water, like drinking, sanitation and food production), the avera
ge American uses about 158 gallons [source: U.S. News and World Report]. This
 illuminates a global divide ov
er water. This divide could also fuel conflict 
and animosity between the water-haves and the water-have-nots in the future. While a
ccess to safe water is being seen inc
reasingly as a human right, water itself is becoming a luxury item. For exampl
e, a diet rich in mea
t is associated with wealth, since meat is more ex
pensive than grain. And while it takes about 1,000 tons of water to grow one ton of
 grain, it takes 15 times that amount of water to grow one ton of beef [source: Leslie]. As water 
grows in value, how will developed nations be perceived by those nations with little or n
o access to water? It's clear that as water becomes increasingly valuable, the risk of future
 conflicts over water supply increases. But can we overcome our own futu
re? Is it inevitable that plague, famine and war due to a lack of 
water will define 21st-century history? Read 
the next page to find out about possible hope for the future.
Bleeding from the nose, referred to as epistaxis by doctors, is a rather comm
on phenomenon. This flows from the 
fact that the nose has a very good bl
ood supply, but cannot be helped much by the nose's prominent
 position or the fact that many individuals take it upon 
themselves to manually excavate it. Most pe
ople know where the nose is, but it's the insides that count when talking
 about nose bleeds. Branches of both the internal and external carotid arteries supply th
e nose. An important landmark is Little's area, also known as Keisselbac
h's plexus, where the ends
 of several of the arteries supply
ing the nose meet and anastomose1. Little's
 area is a common site for bleeds, b
eing situated towards the front of each nostril 
on the nasal septum2. Bleeding from the lateral walls occurs less often 
but is trickier to control, as are nose bleeds in elderly individuals. While nosebleeds ca
n occur spontaneously, they are often due to damage to the vessels through trauma such as 
vigorous and frequent removal o
f dried mucus from inside the nostrils3 or a bl
ow to the face4. High blood pressure, anti-clotting agents an
d bleeding disorders increase the risk of nasal bleeding, as do nasal all
ergies such as hay fever
. Other factors affecting the likelihood of bleeding include the humidity, as dry air
5 tends to cause the nostrils to become inflamed. ... Or, 'It's ruining my s
hirt! How do I make it stop?!'6 1. Don't panic. 2. Remove patient to an appropriate envi
ronment. If your nose sta
rts to bleed, let someone else know
 about it even if you intend 
to treat it yourself. The first step is to remove the bleeder to a bathroom or similar 
place with a good supply of water and paper towel
s; note though that if the bleed is
 torrential or persists for more than
 15 minutes then medical
 attention should be sought. Steps should be taken to protect clothing if necessary. 3. App
ly pressure over the lower par
t of the nose for 10 minutes. Apply steady pressure with a finger and thumb ac
ross the fleshy part of both nostrils just below the bone for around 10 minutes. Squeezi
ng the nose in this manner will stop most bleeds originating from L
ittle's area. Note that squeezing over the bony u
pper part of the nose will not stop the bleeding. In the m
eantime, the bleeder should breathe through their mouth, try not to swallow7, and lean forward to pr
event the blood from running b
ack through the nose and into their airway. If ne
cessary, use a tissue o
r cotton wool ball in the 
entrance of the nostril, but do not be te
mpted to place anything any further insid
e the nostril. An ice pack wrapped in a towel may be temporarily ap
plied to the bridge of the nose but should not repla
ce pinching the nose. 4. If bleeding pe
rsists for more than 
15 minutes, seek urgent medical attention. If the bleeding stops, the patient should
 remain still for a short while and avoid any a
ctions that might restart the bleeding. Nose blowing and picking s
hould be avoided for
 the rest of the day. After a severe nose bleed it is best to avoid nose blowin
g and picking, smoking, strenuous activities, very hot drinks, trauma to the nose and sneezi
ng through the nose where pos
sible for the next seven days. If the site of bleeding is visible, the bleed may be contro
lled by cauterising the offending blood vessel 
with a silver nitrate stick, having first applied a plug of dressing soaked in local anaesthetic8 an
d a vasoconstrictant9 for a few moments. This can also be done after the bleed ha
s stopped if it is felt that the point may re-bleed. Nasal tampons exist10 for pa
cking the nose should the bleed continue, and are used to e
ffectively apply pressure to the bleeding 
point. Specially-designed balloons can also b
e inserted and inflated inside the nose, with different 
varieties being used depending on whether the site of the bleed is at the front or 
the back of the nose. Patients with m
oderate to severe bleeds are admitted to ho
spital for observation for at leas
t 12 hours, with nasal packs usually staying in for 24-48 hours. Intravenou
s fluids or blood may be needed depending on the amount of blood lost. If bleeding persists d
espite medical treatment, surgery may be required to electrically cauter
ise the source or tie off the artery supplying the
 bleed. Many other treatments for nosebleeds hav
e been suggested in the past, ranging from placing blotting paper under the tongue or drinking wat
er with pepper in it, to sniffing cobwebs or placing a key down the 
back of the neck. One old 'cure' actually involves tying a cord around the s
ufferers neck - presumably this works by stopping the flow of blood to their head, and is thu
s inadvisable to say the least. Repeate
d attacks most often occur in children (little bleeders), wher
e the cause may well be excessive nose-picking. The simple ap
proach of stopping the picking may be e
nough, but in those with spontaneous bleeds a small amount of petroleum jelly can be
 used to prevent the nose from drying out, becoming inflamed and bleeding
. If bleeding still continues to occur, it
's a good idea to go and see your doctor.
Throughout the world, human
s cultivate cannabis and hemp – and in many cases, they have done so for 
hundreds or even thousands of years. Humans live in a range of habitats, and as such, we need crops 
that can grow in a wide variety of different environmental conditions. Cannabis is an incred
ibly useful crop for humans, and a
 big part of that usefu
lness is its ability to adapt 
to an incredible variety of different environmental conditions, from near-Arctic cold, thr
ough the parched deserts, to the sweltering tropics. Over centuries, people working in diverse 
conditions have selected, cultivated and nurtured cannabis plants that are most f
it for the local environment – and during this time, local
 varieties of cannabis, with partic
ular characteristics, usage and cannabinoid p
rofile, have become 
established. What Exactly Is A Landrace? Landrace crop varieties are those that h
ave adapted over time to local environmental conditions, in isolation from oth
er populations of the same species, to a point where they have developed a degree of
 inbreeding – and typically, a range of unique characteristics. This process is generally assiste
d by some selective breeding and management by humans – but unlike cul
tivars, landraces are generally more diverse and variable in their expression of traits,
 and a lot more is l
eft up to natural se
lection… The post How Landrace Cannabis Varieties are Disappearing from the Planet appeared f
irst on Sensi Seeds Blog.
Lubumbashi International Airport is an airport in Lubumbashi, Democratic Republic 
of the Congo (IATA: FBM, ICAO: FZQA).
 Lubumbashi International Airport was founded i
n colonial times as the Elisabethville Airport. It was also known as Luano airport. This airport p
layed a high-profile role during the Katanga war. After it was seized by th
e United Nations Force in the Congo (ONUC) troops, the airport wa
s used as a base against the seces
sionist government. Airlines and destinations ||This section is empty. You can help by adding t
o it. (October 2014) Accidents and incidents - In December 2001, Air Katanga Douglas C-53-D
O ZS-OJD was written off in a landing accident at Lubumbashi International A
irport after a delivery flight that originated in South Africa. - September 15, 1996, A
ir Katanga Douglas DC-4-1009 OO-ADN. <ref name= GAD This article incorporates 
public domain material from websites or documents of the Air Force Historical Research Agency
.
Cypress Fairbanks Medical Center Hos
pital wants to help women become more aware of their 
health and give them the tools needed to succeed. Nearl
y 12,000 women in the United States l
earn they have cervical cancer 
each year. But cervical cancer is preventable
 and you can help protect yourself, or your daughter, from deve
loping this serious form of cancer. The Link Betw
een HPV and Cervical Cancer The cervix is the lower, narrow part of
 the uterus. Cancer of the
 cervix occurs when cells begin to grow abn
ormally, dividing at a faster tha
n normal rate. “Most cases of cervical cancer are found in wom
en younger than age 50, but the disease rarely occurs in those younger th
an age 20,” says Stephanie Smith-Sham,
 MD, OB/GYN on the medical staff at Cy-Fair Hospital. The human papillomavi
rus (HPV) causes most cases of cervical cancer. Both men and women can unknowingly
 have HPV and pass it to another person. “You can reduce the risk of de
veloping cervical cancer by preventing HPV infection and having routin
e Pap tests,” suggests Dr. Smith-Sham. “The Pap test or Pap smear check
s for changes in the
 cells of the cervix. Samples of the c
ells from inside and outside of the cervix are taken during a pelvic exam by your
 doctor or nurse,” expl
ains Dr. Smith-Sham. “This te
st should be done regularly as suggested by your doctor to help you and your health care prov
ider stay proactive in addressing any health concerns that may develop, such as cervical cance
r.” A vaccine has been developed to prevent spread of the HPV virus, and the Centers f
or Disease Control and Prevention recommen
ds the vaccine for females through age 26. The vac
cine must be given in three doses over a six-mon
th period. The Importance of Prevention Despite increased screening, the American 
Cancer Society still estimates over 4,000 women will die from cervical cancer this
 year. “You can help your daughter take action
 to prevent cervical cancer through vaccination or to receive treatment if 
it is detected early through regular screening,” adds Dr. Smith-Sham. “Cervical 
cancer is a difficult condition to live through, but resources and services
 are available to help you better understand the risk factors and options f
or prevention.” Talk to the Doctor about Your Concerns Want to kn
ow more about HPV and cervical cancer? Or in
terested in learning about the impo
rtance of regular screening to help foster good health habits in yo
ur daughter at an early age? Join Cy-Fair Hospital for a mother and 
daughter seminar on Saturday,
 June 26 at 9 a.m. in the Professi
onal Building I Classrooms (11302 Fallbrook Drive). The seminar will include an open d
iscussion designed to help learn what you need to know to protect you
r daughter from cervical cancer. Call 800-681-2733 to register for this informative 
seminar. Complimentary breakfast and refreshments will be provided. Space is limited, so call to 
reserve your spot today.
Syringomyelia is damage to the spinal cord due to the formation of a fluid-filled a
rea within the cord. The fluid buildup seen in syringomyelia may be a 
result of spinal cord trauma, tumors of the spinal cord, or birth defects (specifically, "chiari ma
lformation," in which part of the brain pushes down onto the spinal cord at the base of the skul
l). The fluid-filled cavity usually begins in the neck area. It expands slowly, putting pre
ssure on the spinal cord an
d slowly causing damage. There may be no s
ymptoms, or symptoms may i
nclude: Additional symptoms that may be associated with this disease: A neurologic examinati
on may show loss of sensation o
r movement caused by compression of the spinal cord. An
 MRI of the spine confirms syringomyelia and dete
rmines the exact location and extent. Often, an
 MRI of the head will be done to look for associate
d conditions including hydroc
ephalus (water on the brain). Rarely, an spinal CT with myelogram may be done. The goals of tre
atment are to stop the spinal cord damage from getting worse and
 to maximize functioning. Surgery to relieve pressure in t
he spinal cord may be appropriate.
 Physical therapy may be needed to maximize muscular fun
ction. It may be necessary to drain the fluid build up. See: V
entriculoperitoneal shunti
ng Untreated, the disorder gets worse very slowly, but it eventually 
causes severe disability. Surg
ical decompression usually stops the progression of the disorder, with about 50% of people 
showing significant improvement in neurologic func
tion after surgical decompression. Without treatment, the condition will lead to: Po
ssible complications of surgery include: Call your health care provider if you have symptoms of syri
ngomyelia. There is no known prevention, other than avoiding trauma to the spinal cord. Prompt trea
tment reduces progression of the disorde
r.
In oral tissues, e-cig users were found to develop some of the same cancer-related molecular change
s as cigarette smokers, stated new study. If you think vaping is beni
gn, think again. The research, published this week in the International Journal of Mo
lecular Sciences, comes amid a mushrooming e-cig market and mounting public he
alth worries. On a positive note, recent research found vaping is almost twice as effectiv
e as other nicotine replacement ther
apies in helping smokers quit. "The exi
sting data show that e-cig vapor is not merely 'water vapor' as some peopl
e believe," said Ahmad Besaratinia, an associate professor at Keck
 School of Medicine of USC and the study's senior author. "Although the c
oncentrations of most carcinogenic compo
unds in e-cig product
s are much lower than those in cigarette smoke, there is no 
safe level of exposure to carcinogens." Besaratinia e
mphasized that the molecular changes seen in the study aren't ca
ncer, or even pre-cancer, but rather an early war
ning of a process that could potentially lead to cancer if unchecked. The researchers looked at g
ene expression in oral cells collected
 from 42 e-cig users, 24 cigarette smokers and 27 people wh
o didn't smoke or vape. Gene expression is the
 process by which instructions in our DNA are converted into a functional product, such a
s a protein. Certain alterations in gene expression can lead to cancer. Th
ey focused on oral epithelial cells, whi
ch line the mouth, because over 90 percent of smoking-related canc
ers originate in epithelial tis
sue, and oral cancer is asso
ciated with tobacco use. Both smokers and vapers showed abnormal expression, or deregulation, i
n a large number of genes linked to cancer developmen
t. Twenty-six percen
t of the deregulated genes in e-cig users were i
dentical to those found in smokers. Some deregulated genes found in
 e-cig users, but not in smokers, are nevertheless implicated in lung cancer, esophageal canc
er, bladder cancer, ovarian cancer and leukemia. Besaratinia and his 
team plan to replicate his findings in a larger group of subjects 
and explore the mechanisms that cause gene deregulation. He's also launching another ex
periment in which smokers switch to e-cigs; he wants to see whether any changes in gene regulati
on occur after the swi
tch. "For the most part, the particip
ants are as curious as we are to know whether these products are safe," he said.
Climate/Environment, Health and Improved Nutrition Objectives : Recent research in
dicates that climate-friendly diets are healthier, but much o
f this evidence is based on aggregate 
consumption data or on individuals' dietary intake data from just one observation day. Analysis
 of individuals' self-selected diets is
 important for applying dietary guidance, but
 usual intake over time is 
needed to better assess relationships w
ith human health and environmental outcomes. To address this
 gap, we developed a method to estimate the association of dietary carbon footprints w
ith nutritional quality for usual intake base
d on multiple observation days. Methods : Based on an exhaustive review of the sustai
nability science literature, 
we developed a database o
f Food Impacts on the Environmen
t for Linking to Diets (dataFIELD), which has greenhouse gas emissions (GHGE) of 332 food co
mmodities. We linked dataFIELD to the dietary recall data for each of two day
s in the 2005-2010 National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES),
 and calculated GHGE per day for each individual. Finally, we 
adapted the multi-variate Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) simulation procedure, originally develo
ped by the National Cancer Institute to estimate the joint usual intake distri
butions of multiple dietary components. We included GHGE/1000 kcal al
ong with the 12 dietary components in the Healthy Eating Index (e.g. 
total fruit intake/1000 kcal, sodium/1000 kcal, etc). Our MCMC model accounts for epis
odic consumption of foods 
(such as fish) and allows for inclusion of
 covariates, such as age, sex, or race-ethnicity to improve estimate
s. We demonstrate the me
thod using two days of dietary
 intake for all adults with reliable data (n=
16,800). Previous results by our team u
sing one-day data indicate a significant (P < 0
.05) inverse relationship between Healthy Eating Ind
ex scores and GHGE. Analyses with this new method provide similar results. C
onclusions : This study demonstrates a method to estimat
e the relationships between healthfulness and carbon foo
tprints for usual dietary intake. This is important because it allows for ex
amination of diet quality and sustainability in
dicators of real, self-selected diet
s over time. These methods can be used to identify healthy, environment
ally beneficial dietary cha
nges for promotion in nutrition education. Funding Sources : Wellcome Trust.
Maple Leaf Publishing (Kenny King) has two books tha
t I use a lot in my literate (post-phonics) kids classes
: Short Stories 1 and Everyday Verbs. Approxim
ately the first third of each of these books is devoted 
to present tense forms; the second third uses present progressive; the last third has past t
ense. Because of this, the two books are well suited to
 be used in conjunction with each other. (I should note that while the grammar used i
n the two books aligns well, the verbs covered in the two books do not.) I have developed 
a twelve-step guide for myself to get optimal benefit from the Short Stories books. For a PDF o
f the guide, click here: Twelve Steps. Following these twelve steps ensures th
at the students will develop their listenin
g, reading, speaking and writing skills as well as vocabular
y and grammar. (Note: Step 10 refers to cloze exercises. These are fill-in-the
-blank exercises I have made for myself. It’s easy to make your own if
 you want to.) For each class, I print out a copy of a checklist. (Link to
 checklist PDF: checklist.) This checklist makes it easy for me to keep track of which of the tw
elve steps I have done with a class for each s
tory. The “Everyday Verbs” book is more ex
plicit instruction and practice in grammar. I usually alternate 
between this and the “Short
 Stories 1” book (abov
e). For example, after completing story 1 in the Short Stories boo
k, we do pages 2 and 3 from the Everyday Verbs book. (If that is confusing, just loo
k at the checklist. I
 think it will make sense then.) So the checklist is a guide to coo
rdinating the use of the two books as wel
l as a way to keep track of which of the twelve steps a class has done in the sto
ry books. Feel free to contact me if you have any questions about any of this!
Honor founders on Independence Day As we celebrate Independence 
Day, let us not forget to honor the brave found
ers who extricated us from the arrogance of English kings and fashioned one united peopl
e brought here from multitudes of kindred souls and tongues. They fashioned a nation of governance 
by the people that fought for ending slavery, rallied for woman's vote, and created a liberty that
 promises everyone opp
ortunity beyond imaginati
on. Every generation through s
weat and blood has forged a brighter future for 
subsequent generations. 
Mothers and fathers have struggled to ensure better opportunities for their children—and it wor
ked—but the challenge is ever wi
th us. We still need the God of all religions 
to help us avoid violenc
e, and discord, and confusion, and pride, and, yes, arrogance
—for without His help, the tribulations of history will repeat itself.
Sociodemographic chara
cteristics, travel motivation and satisfaction have long been suggested to be the pred
ictors of travel behav
ior and intention of tourists. Meanwhile, most studies focus on tourists from
 Western countries and researches on Chinese tourist is largely inadequ
ate. Questionnaire surveys were conducted 
in the well-known Nanling National Forest Park and Dinghushan National Nature Reser
ve in South China to investigate the role of Chinese tourists’ sociodemographic characteristics in
 their travel motivation and satisfaction. Several
 important findings have been resulted: 1) Tourists’ satisfactio
n on the management and the educational value of the forest protected areas in South Ch
ina was negatively correlat
ed to their level of education; 2) The motivation
 of relaxation and nature exploration was positively correlated to age; 3) Motivati
on in terms of social influence was negatively correlated to education l
evel. Various Chinese cultures in relationship with sociodemographic ch
aracteristics were suggested to be the main influence that shape t
he motivation and behavior of tourist. These cultural differences have marked the di
screpancy between Chinese and Western tourists, showing that traditional studies conducted in Wester
n society may not have direct implications on Chinese tourist
s. The findings of our study provide clues for the management of nature-based destinations to accom
modate the escalating number of Chinese tourists. Copyright © 2018 T
he International Conference on Sustainable Tourism and Innovation. |Publication status||Pub
lished - May 2018| CitationMa, A. T. H., & Cheung, L. T. O. (2018, May). The role of socio
demographic characteristi
cs in the travel motivation and satisfaction of tourists in forest protected areas in South Ch
ina. Paper presented at The 2018 International Confere
nce on Sustainable Tourism: Sustainable Tourism and Innovation, The Chinese University of
 Hong Kong, Hong Kon
g, China. - Protected area - South China - Travel motivation
In a large school gymnasium in Rochester, NY, a group of ad
ults are giggling and running around,
 playing a game called ‘Watch Your Back Tag’. It’s a game where everyo
ne’s ‘it’ and you re-join the g
ame when the person who originally tagged you is tagged themselves. These adults 
are employees of the Rochester C
ity School District. They are engaging in playful, professional development t
raining designed to help schools and recreationa
l organizations create and maintain a great recess and play environment. They
 are being led by a trainer from Playworks, a nationa
l nonprofit, which provides services ranging from on-site coac
hes to professional training for school staff 
to teach and model sustainable recess programs. The Greater 
Rochester Health Foundation (GRHF) a
nd other local organizat
ions have partnered to increase physical activity and improve nutrition 
in schools, home, and community. T
he collaboration was born out of a GRHF-funded initiative which included n
ine Rochester City schools, several bef
ore- and after-school programs, local recreational organiz
ations, and summer camps. Professional development trainers are helping administrato
rs promote healthy play, fight childhood
 obesity and, according to senior program officer of GRHF Heidi B
urke, they are seeing tremendous results. “Sixty-five percent
 of students are now getting moderate
 to vigorous physical activity
 during daily recess and I think mu
ch of that has to do with the fact that we implemented strategies provided by 
organizations such as Playworks,” Burke
 said. “We are working with schools that have not had recess in yea
rs, and teachers, as well as those administering recess, are nervous abo
ut it and are not sure of 
their skills.” Roughly one in three 
of Rochester City schools were previously offering recess; most of them not da
ily. GRHF worked with Healthi Kids, a community-b
ased grassroots coalition that encourages play every day, to rewrite the dist
rict’s wellness policy
 to ensure that every child receives 20 minutes of recess daily. In a city where
 the child overweight a
nd obesity rate is 38 percent, principals like Camaron Cly
burn of Dr. Walter Cooper Academy School #10 call
ed on Playworks to teach them how to use recess t
o promote healthy living an
d bring some fun to the grind of long school days. “One of our main challenges was simpl
y being allowed to have the students be active in the first place,” Clyburn said. “Th
ey’re in school for six and a hal
f hours and so, although they have physical education classes twice a week, we fo
und that they still needed some time to get their wiggles out.” Students are not the
 only ones benefiting from
 active recesses, according to Clyburn. Teachers and administrators also seem to enjoy the
 opportunity to get their wiggles out for the
 day. “What Playworks provided us with was professional development for our staff,” she said. “
They give you a lot of games that are really easy and fun for students and adult
s. Everyone, from students to teachers, needs a brain break, and they have has empowere
d us to make the most of our recess time.” Other administrators, including Theodora Waters, 
an assistant principal at John J Audubon school #33, said Playworks helped reduc
e the crucial transition times between the
 end of recess and beginning of 
class time. “Time is of the essence,” Waters said. “Students basically hav
e a set lunch time with recess connected to their lunch time. T
he coaches go into the cafeteria, line the students up quickly, and brin
g them out quickly. Now the students know that they have dedicated time to play games, 
make new friends and practice leadership on the playground b
efore starting their afternoon instruction. That’s a direct result of working with Playworks.” Playw
orks tailors their workshops, games and playground activities to the com
munities in which they work. Ac
cording to Burke, the personal a
ttention that the team gave 
to Rochester schools and youth organizations is indicative
 of their work beyond the pl
ayground. “The one thing that has impressed me the most with our relationsh
ip is that it’s not a one-size-fits-all sce
nario. We appreciated a p
artner that would go back to the drawing board and talk to their trainers to pull something toge
ther that would work for our
 community. The ability to customize has assisted us in creating greater
 impact,” Burke said. While the proof is
 in the numbers, the real impact Playworks has had on the Roc
hester community, according to Heal
thi Kids parent engagement coordinator Erick Stephens, is see
n on the smiling faces of the kids during recess
. “Playworks is about children being active, parents being active, and schools making cho
ices to promote physical activity
,” Stephens said. “I think one of the 
biggest barriers in implementing recess was that we’ve gone so long without recess. So w
hat they do is train teachers who neve
r knew recess to see the importance of recess. They make the connection between social-e
motional learning and conflict resolution skills that are developed thr
ough active play.” Rochester administrators also learned that the power of play extends f
ar beyond the jungle gym, according to Stephens. He said that the tr
ainers inspired everyone who participated in their workshops, from teachers
 to recess supervisors to lunch aides, to all take on an active role as teachers in th
e lives of children. “I think my favorite story that ca
me out of the workshops was listening to the lunch aides, who are often the lowest paid workers wi
th the least amount of benefits. They learned that they are actually teachers too and tha
t they matter. No one had ever told them that before,” Stephens said. “Playwork
s empowered them to look at their jobs from a different perspective, and fo
r them to say, ‘Yeah 
I do matter, I do make a difference in the lives of these children.’” As of 2016, Playworks has tra
ined over 400 adults and 5,000 children in Rochester City, creating and maintai
ning robust outdoor recess 
programs. They also aim to expand their partnership
 with the city, and Rochester City School District has asked Playworks to help them maintai
n a safe and healthy indoor recess during their cold winters and to expand their training within
 the classroom setting.
The Scriptures are entirely
 about “a” people – that there are only tw
o peoples in the world, gentiles and Hebrew
s. The “Scriptures” is the story about the Hebrew people. YHWH Elohim, 
the Creator, commanded Abraham to leave his home and
 go to a place where YHWH would show him. When he arrived YHWH made
 HIS covenant with him forever. HE g
ave them a land that HE called
 the Promised Land. Later Abraham was given a son of “promise.” H
is name was Isaac. Even later, he had a son named Yaakov (changed to Israel) to w
hich the original covenant was passed to him, fore
ver. Even later when the Israelites were enslaved in Egypt, a son was born who would lead t
he people out, and into the
 Promised Land. When HE led them to Mount Sinai, HE gave them “instructions” to live by which HE cal
led Torah. In fact the word for instruction in Hebr
ew is Torah.” I might add; more than the Hebrews came out 
of Egypt, also thousands of ge
ntiles who had obeyed YHWH’s instruction for the Passover. HE gave them the same heritag
e of those born in the “Land” and HIS same 
Torah applied to them. HE adopted them into HIS family 
- the Hebrews! HE also declares that “anyone” who will turn his heart toward Israel will
 be grafted into HIS family, and they too become as “born 
in the Land.” This people were destined to be Messiah’s bri
de for whom HE would return for. This is what
 we so anxiously await… The following paragraphs describe events in ou
r history. There is one Creato
r, YHWH, (HIS real name), is the Creator of the heavens and t
he earth, and that without HIM nothing was made. That HE, YHWH is the 
Torah that lives forever. HIS Son YaShua was with HIM from the beginning and HE and Y
HWH are One. YaShua wo
uld later take on a fle
shly form and offer Himself
 as payment for the sins of the world – the final sacrifice. As 
for us, the people Israel, we broke HIS covenants but t
hose who repented were forgiven and
 their relationship restored with YHWH. John wrote that Messiah, 
(YaShua, yah-shooah, HIS real name), has come as the Living Torah - John 1:1 
“in the beginning was the living Torah and the living Torah was with YHW
H, and the living Torah was YHWH.” 2 The same was in the beginning with YHWH. That, YaShu
a came to us and said; Matthew 5:17-19, 17 think not that I am come to weaken, or des
troy the Torah, or the prophets: I have
 not come to weaken, or destroy, 
but to completely rev
eal it in its intended fullness. 18 For truly I say to y
ou, until the current heaven and earth pass away, not one yud
, or one nekudah shall by any means pass from the Torah, unt
il all be fulfilled. 19 Whoever therefore shall break, or weaken one o
f the least Torah commandments, and sha
ll teach men so, he will be referred to as the least in the Kingdom of Heaven: but whoever
 shall do and teach the commands, the 
same will be called great in the kingdom of heaven. HE stripped away and exposed t
he Pharisees' “adding-to, and taking-away” of the Scriptures which YHWH strictly forbids
. By their adding to and taking away, made Y
HWH’s Commandments of no effect, and this is what they taught in the Temple. So men obeye
d "man's laws" instead of Torah. YaShua taught true Torah, not the “leaven” as the Pha
risees taught. HE exposed their sins publicly, which infuriated the Pharisees who so
ught to kill HIM. By getting the Roman officials i
nvolved, they held a mock t
rial for YaShua and succeeded in putting HIM to death. 
His death fulfilled the prophecy of Torah and the prophets. HE was crucified, di
ed and was buried (literally 3 days and 3 night
s), as the sign of Yonah was three days and three nights in the belly of the fish. HE was 
resurrected on the Sabbath because HE is the Creator of the Sabbath, and has ascended to the Fath
er where HE awaits HIS return. By HIS sacrifice we are forgiven the sin of Adam that we inher
ited, too we are forgiven for breaking HIS Tora
h commands, or, the death penalty we were to receive for doin
g so. That the Scriptures ar
e accurate, inspired, and valid, 
including ALL the covenants which YHWH our Elohim made
 with our forefathers, from Adam, Noah, Abraham,
 Yitzchak, (Isaac) a
nd Yaakov,(Jacob), and these are the forefathers of all believers in Messiah. 
We are commanded to use the “real” names of the Father and HIS Son, once we
 learn them, not ever using the counterfeit ones that we inherited.
 This command applies to the Jews who use the word
s; Ha Shem, or, (the name)
. The Roman Emperor Constantine hated the Jews, and was not a 
believer in Messiah as is taught by some, but was a sun-god worshipper until his d
eath. He replaced the Feasts of YHWH with pagan obs
ervances christmas and easter, in which there
 is nothing holy, but was idol worship directly from Babylon. These were the yearly observances the 
Romans used to worship their pagan idols. The word "
christo" is Greek, a name they called all their deities. The 
word “christ” is from “christeanus” from 
Greek idolatry. The Tora
h breaking Jews compiled a bo
ok they called the Talmud, (a book meant to interpret Tora
h, written by the Pharisees) and taught in Synagogues as Torah. There is no room for it in 
a believer’s life, only true Torah. YaShua Messiah was born the first day of Suk
koth, the Fall Feast of YHWH - in Beit L
echem ( Bethlehem; House of Bread), not on d
ecember 25th. At Passover HE offered Himself as THE Passover Lamb, the Final Sacrifice for our sins.
 Commandments contained in Torah are still valid today and must
 be kept as commanded from Creation, throughout our generations; not for Salvation but 
so that we will know HIM intimately. 1John 2:4: “an
y man who says he knows YHWH and do
esn’t keep HIS commandments is a
 liar and Torah is not in him.” The c
ommandment of the Seventh Day, or, Sabbat
h (Shabbat sha-baat means REST), was the only day that YHWH named, the other days are nu
mbered, and the true Sabbath is saturday, after the pagan god satu
rn. The moon’s phases re
gulate the beginning of months. The beginnings of years are established by the sighting th
e first sliver of a new moon, and, the barley crop being mature, if the barley is
n’t ripe then the next new moon will determine the yea
r’s beginning. Days 
begin and end at sun-down
, whenever the sun goes down! In 1999 the Heb
rew calendar, astronomically and agriculturally correct, was re-established, restoring
 HIS reckoning of time. We believe that all prophec
ies will be fulfilled at their appointed times, no sooner, no
 later, as Scripture states. An event
 known as the “rapture” will come at HIS appointed time and not in secret. A Scripture 
reference to the verse; “that no one knows the day
 or hour” when HE will return”, concerns the times of the new moo
n, and or the ripening barley – thus, “only M
Y Father knows hour or day”.
 Some barley harvests are later, but we still have a new 
moon, if the barley is not ripened, Scriptures directs us to wait till the next ne
w moon, adding a 13th month. Until both agree the new moon and ripeni
ng of the barley, we cannot start a new year, so calendars cannot be made years in advance, 
we must wait on the moon and the barley! All Holy ev
ents are set apart and made Holy by YHWH, not man, and are not “Jewish” things, are YHWH’s t
hings! The Feasts of YHWH, have never been annulled, changed, rescheduled, or alter
ed in any way – and never will, and HE commands us to keep them forever. HE is the same 
yesterday, today and forever. We are the "last" generation; the fulfilling of t
he prophecy of Isaiah, "when Israel was restored as a nation"
, marked the beginning of the last gene
ration and we will not pass away until all things 
written in the Scriptures will be fulfilled. And the day whe
n we will be “changed” and will have inc
orruptible bodies to dwell with Messiah fo
rever, will come at its appointed time, not at
 some random moment or in secret. In: 1Thesalonians 4:17, 2Theselonians 2:2, and 1Corinthians 15
:51, that this "rapture" occurs after the "Last
 Shofar", (the seven shofars, referred to 
in Revelations). Torah is the “shadow” picture of good things to come, as Paul 
wrote. The last generation will be tribulated and proven true and 
then be gathered in an Exodus out of the world. May H
E be glorified, honored and praised forever and ever,A
mein!
A publication of the Archaeological Institute of America A newly discovered Minoan palace has 
yielded the oldest well-dated fresco fragment ever found in C
rete. Excavating 20 miles south of Heraklion, George Reth
emiotakis of the Heraklion Museum found the fragment of a wall painting depicting a rocky landscape 
and a wood construction, possi
bly a shrine. It dates to the seventeenth century B.C. The 
central court of the 
palace measures 52 by 105 feet, the fourth largest in Crete after those at the famous
 palaces of Knossos, Mallia, and Phais
tos. The 53,000-square-foot
 palace was built between 1700 and 1650 B.C., destroyed by fire, reconstructed ca. 1600, and d
estroyed again, perhaps by an earthquak
e, in 1500. Reports of looting led Rethe
miotakis and a salvage team to the site in the winter of 1991-92, when 
he discovered the ce
ntral court and "realized it was something big." When he returned to conduct systematic 
excavations in 1995, he uncovered two halls in th
e palace's east wing that may ha
ve served political or religi
ous functions. The larger of the two halls, measuring 21 by 21 feet, contai
ned a large, square hearth between four pillars, a unique feature in Minoan palaces. Ret
hemiotakis believes the smaller hall, including a central column surrounded by benches, was 
used as a dining area. The other half of the east wing include
d storerooms which, in typical Minoan fashion, housed pithoi (storage j
ars), and a large kitchen containing abundant ki
tchen ware. The palace's west wing had been destroyed by plowing, but the discovery o
f tools and stone implements indicates that it may have been u
sed for craft productio
n. Rethemiotakis has so far only uncovered the walls of the north wing 
and a residential area with an impressive view of the court's facade. 
The fresco fragment, which bears an image of a rocky landscape, was found in debris of the pala
ce's first phase, dating to the seventeenth centu
ry B.C. Fine ceramics transported from Knossos are evidence of a substantial reoccu
pation of the western part of the site by elite classes after 1500. The Greek state is
 expropriating the site from a farmer and it will eventually be developed a
s an archaeological park; the dig has received financi
al support from the Institute for Aegean Pr
ehistory. Meanwhile, the Cretan city of Chania, known for its picturesque Venetian for
tifications, is also becoming notable for its Min
oan ruins. Excavations last spring on Daskaloyanni Street revealed a substantial Minoan settleme
nt dating to the Neopal
atial period (1700-1450 B.C.). It was covered with ash from a
n extensive fire ca. 1450; similar co
nflagrations are known to have damaged other Minoan settlements throug
hout Crete at this time. Maria Vlazaki, Chania's director of prehistoric and classical anti
quities, says only the Minoan town's western boundary, measuring some 7,
000 square feet, has thus far been excavated. Rescue excavations next to Daskaloya
nni Street conducted by Vlazaki in 1989 revealed a lustral b
asin for ritual purification. The settlement will be temporarily covered pend
ing further excavation and the creation of an archaeological park
.
The featured article, by legal scholar Gregory J. Roden, discusses the question whether unborn c
hildren are “persons” within the language an
d meaning of the Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments. Because there is no constitutionaltext exp
licitly holding unborn children t
o be, or not to be,“persons,” his examination is founded on the historical understanding and pract
ice of the law, the structure of the Constituti
on, and the jurisprudence of the Supreme Court. In Roe
 v. Wade, the state of Texas argued that
 “the fetus is a ‘person’within
 the language and meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment.”The Suprem
e Court responded in
 its majority opinion that “[i]f this
 suggestion of personhood is established, the appellant’s case,
 of course, collapses, for the fetus’ ri
ght to life would then be guaranteed specifically by the Amendment.” Unfo
rtunately, the majority’s legal analysis arrived at the opposite conc
lusion, “that the word ‘person,’ as used in the Fourteenth Amendment, does not includ
e the unborn.” It is the majority’s legal analysis that Mr. Roden examines in fin
e detail. First, Mr. Roden points out that the Constitution does not confer upon the f
ederal government the power to grant or
 deny “personhood” under the Fourteenth Amendment. Rather, the power to recognize or deny unborn 
children as holders of certain statutory and common law rig
hts and duties has historically been exercised
 by the states. The Roe opinion and other Supreme Court c
ases implicitly recognize this function of state soverei
gnty. Second, he demonstrates that, at the time Roe was decided, the stat
es had exercised this power and held unborn children to be persons under their criminal, tor
t, and property law. Because of the unanimity of the states in holding unborn chi
ldren to be persons under criminal, tort, and pr
operty law, Mr. Roden argues that the text of the Equal Protection Clause of
 the Fourteenth Amendment compels fe
deral protection of unborn children as per
sons. Furthermore, he shows that to the extent the Cour
t examined the substantive law in these disciplines, its legal conclusions were not warranted. 
Finally, Mr.Roden illustrates the inconsistency of federal statutory law with Ro
e, in that it also treats unborn children as persons by
 recognizing their eligibility for federal
 entitlements. Due to the length of the featured article, no other material is included in
 this edition. James Bopp, Jr., J.D.
A global citizen science platform to discover, share and identif
y wildlife Raccoons are fam
iliar animals with masked faces and 
ringed tails. They have five toes on both the front and hind feet. Their long, dexterous fingers ena
ble them to open latches, untie knots, turn doorkn
obs, and open jars. Their prints look like tiny human baby
 handprints and footprints. Edge of Lake Le
wisville Spotted on Oct
 30, 2012 Submitted on Nov 2, 2012
Mexico has passed rapidly through a “nutrition transition”. The tr
aditional Mexican diet was based on c
orn and beans, supplemented by 
fruits and vegetables with relatively little meat 
and dairy products. Over a 15-year period the average Mexican
 ate 29% less fruits and 
vegetables and 6% more carbohydrates while consuming 37% more soft drinks. In fact Mexica
ns now enjoy the dubious distinction of being the world’s greatest consumers of soft drinks, 
downing 160 liters a year on average. White bread is replacing tortil
las, fast food is replacing home coo
king. This nutrition transition, together with a mor
e sedentary lifestyle, fueled a “disease transition”, characterized by a shift from high mortalit
y due to infectious diseases to high mortality f
rom non-communicable chronic diseases. To see h
ow Mexico compares with o
ther countries—USA, Spa
in, France, Japan, Russia, Brazil, South Africa, China and India— in terms of eating habits, se
e this recent graphical comparison: New York Times Business section article of April 3, 2010, ent
itled “Factory Food” Mexico’s per person
 consumption of vegetables is lower than any other c
ountry on the chart 
except South Africa. Mexico’s consumption of “processed, frozen, dried and chilled
 food, and read-to-eat meals” is lower t
han any country except China and India, but Mexicans make up for this with a consumption of “b
akery goods” that is more than double that of any other country on the chart.
 This post includes edite
d excerpts from chapter 28 of of Geo-Mexico: the geography and dynamics o
f modern Mexico. Buy your copy today!
According to an article written for Psychology Today titled “ Brain Differences Bet
ween Genders,” written by Gregory L. Jantz, Ph.D., the differences between genders extend f
ar beyond physical appearance and general character traits, comprising instead major distinguisher
s between male and female brains.
 Many more studies focus on this divide as wel
l. However, according to a study done last year, which 
was the very first to search for sex di
fferences across the entire human brain, most people actually have a mix of male and fe
male features, suggesting that gender classifications in various situations are essenti
ally meaningless. Meg John Barker, a psychologist at Open University in Milton Keyne
s, UK, explains that this study “provides biological support for something that we’ve known
 for some time—that gender isn’t binary.” Researchers examined MRI images of 1,4
00 different people between the ages o
f 13 and 85, searching for differences in the size of various brain regions as well as the connec
tions between them. 29 regions in the brain were ide
ntified to have some differences, including the hippocampus, but when they
 looked at each individual brain scan, they found that o
nly a few people — b
etween 0 and 8 percent — had “all male” or “all female” brains. Daphna Joel, a psychologis
t at Tel-Aviv Universit
y involved in the study, asserts tha
t “most people are in the middle.” (source) This study adds nuance to our understanding of gender,
 offering proof that, while differences in brain structures do exist be
tween genders on average, when we look at indivi
dual brains, these differences are less substantial,
 with most people showing features typical to both male and female
 brains. The study was published in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, and of th
e 1,400 brains scanned, up to 53 percent showed a mix of male and female c
haracteristics. As mention
ed above, only between 0 and 8 percent were distinctly male or female. It’s a very significant st
udy which negates our traditional views of gender being completely binary, and give
n the number of studies which argue otherwise, it will no doubt
 come as a surprise t
o many researchers. In response to the study, scientist Bruce McEwen at the Rock
efeller University in New York r
emarked to New Scientist that we “are beginning to realise 
the complexity of what we have traditionally understood to be ‘male’ and ‘female’, and thi
s study is the first step in that direction. I t
hink it will change peoples’ minds.” Gender Myths and Cultural Expectat
ions. “We separate girls and boys, 
men and women all the time. It’s wrong, not just politically, but scientifically – ever
yone is different.” – Daphna Joel, a psychologist at Tel-Aviv University “We ne
ed to start thinking a lot more
 carefully about how muc
h weight we give to gender as a defining feature of hu
man beings, and stop asking for it in situations where it simpl
y isn’t relevant.” – Meg John Barker, a psychologist at the Open University in Milton Keynes, UK 
While we have come a long way towards establishing gender equality, gender myths still pervade ever
y aspect of society in today’s world. The male obsession with sex is a commonplace in po
pular culture which not only diminishes the sensitivi
ty and intelligence of men but denies the sexuality of women, who are often
 portrayed as disliking both sex and masturbation. Stereotypes like women bein
g gossips or men being better at math are other examples, bu
t there are many to choose from. Throw in cultural expectations for how each gender should dress
 and behave alongside tar
geted advertising and marketing, and the problem becomes more comp
licated still. Gender stereotypes co
ntinue to persist, and for years scientists have be
en focusing on our differences (which do exist) rather than our simi
larities. Why are we so obsessed with our differences, and why do we vi
ew these differences as a barrier between us instead of 
something that can unite us? “If a neuroscientist was given someone’s brain without their 
body or any additional information, they would s
till probably be able to guess if it had
 belonged to a man or a woman. Men’
s brains are larger, for example, and are likely to have a larger numb
er of “male” features overall. But the new findings suggest that it is impossible to predi
ct what mix of brain features a person is likely to have based on their sex alone
.” – New Scientist writer Jessica Hamzelou, author of “Scans prove there’s no such thing as a
 ‘male’ or ‘female’ brain” (source) This study also offers further 
compelling evidence that men and women are more similar th
an we once thought. The team analyzed multiple datasets which evaluate
d behaviours that are considered to be highly gender stereotypical, such as scrapbooking, taki
ng a bath, or playing video games, and researchers found that indi
viduals were just as variable for these measures, with only 0.1 percent of the subjects displaying o
nly stereotypically-male or only stereotypically-female be
haviours. According to Joel, “there is no sense in talking about male nature and female na
ture. There is no one person that has all the male characte
ristics and another person that has all the female characteristics. Or if they exist they are reall
y, really rare to find.” (source) Interesting stuff
, isn’t it? Who would have thought that our b
rains, although they do show some differences depending on your gender, are mostly 
a mix of both male and female chara
cteristics. “Scans prove there’s no su
ch thing as a ‘male’ or ‘female’ brain.” Written by Jessica Hamzelo
u in the December 5-11, 2015 edition of New 
Scientist Magazine. All other sources are embedded throughou
t the article.
Year 3 – Summer Newsletter 2023 Wel
come back, I hope you all had a lovely Easter 
break! In English we wi
ll be covering newspaper reports, instructions & explanations,
 persuasive letters and finally a book study. The children will be 
using skills they have learnt so far along with new ones. Children really enjoyed usin
g thesauruses last term to improve their word choices; a skill we will continue to d
evelop. Please try and encourage your child to spend time reading every day, even if they are a
 confident reader it is vital they are
 heard reading aloud regularly. To begin the term, we will be focusing on fractions b
y exploring whole, tenths and equivalents and the children 
will take part in a daily arithmetic and recap of previ
ous learning. To assist with
 children’s mathematical development
 encourage them to handle real money, u
nderstand the value of coins
 & notes, add and subtract money and give change. Practise reading analogue and digital time
 in a 12hr and 24hr format. Continue to practise the times tables and
 use Times Table Rock Stars. History 
and Geography In History, we will begin our Tudor topic. We will use our history 
knowledge from the year to explore timelines to support chronology
 and understanding of BC/AD. In Geography our topic will focus on North Americ
a. The children will con
tinue to use their map skills, apply their previous learning about mountains and explor
e physical geography. We wil
l start the term with a topic called Animals including Humans which recaps the children’s 
learning from year 2 about how animals survive and stay healthy a
nd helps children to learn more about what makes a healthy, balanced diet. They will
 learn about the nutrients th
at different foods provide and how these n
utrients help our bodies. We will also explore how different animals eat different types
 of foods and need different proportions of nutrients. We will look at food labels on packagin
g to gather information about content. We will be continuing with ‘how to stay safe online’ 
which will an ongoing theme throughout the school year. Childr
en will be using the schoo
l laptops and iPads to further develop researching skills and ensuring we use trusted webs
ites. The children will also learn how to 
use Microsoft PowerPoint to create presentations. Art and Design 
& Technology In art we will be studying the artist Qu
entin Blake and exploring self-portr
aits. The children will be learning to use construc
tive criticism to further improve their artwork. In Design & Technology we will be looking at des
igning, making, and evaluating a healthy packed lunch! Child
ren will be surveying other year groups
 to find out what they have in their packed lunches and consider what makes a he
althy packed lunch. Our learning in scienc
e will further support this. In RE we be looking at ‘What do Muslims believe about god
?’ Our PSHE learning will continue to support children’s mental health. We will
 also be exploring physical w
ellbeing, growing & changing, and keeping safe. This will cover positive friendships, w
hat makes a good friend, dental health, healthy sleep, calling for help in an emer
gency, how to help someone if they have been bitten or stung, wat
er safety around rivers/canals, risks with flooding, and much more.
 In Music we will be developing th
e skills of listening and appr
aising, musical acti
vities and perform and review. The children will learn songs and explore different pe
rcussion instruments. We will have PE on a Monday with myself and Mr Snelling on a Thu
rsday afternoon. Please make sure the children come into school in the correct PE kits on both days.
 Our French topics this term will revisit previous topics an
d we will then move onto foll
owing instructions, name parts of the body, identify colours and say what they are w
earing. Children we be able to verbalise, read and w
rite simple words and phrases in Fre
nch. Learning task- Each week your child will have a learning task. This will either be linked to
 school English, Maths, Topic or Science. This task should take 20/30 minutes. This is set
 on a Friday and should be returned the following Thursday (to al
low marking time!) Spellings- These are bein
g sent home on a half termly basis. Your child still must learn weekly words for a weekly test. On 
the word sheet each week is dated based on when the spellings are set, they will be tested the f
ollowing Friday. Children have been grouped based on a diagnos
tic test and my assessment from their application in their work. If you feel your child can learn 
the words with ease, for the test, please test them on th
eir application in a sentence. Tests are on a Friday morning in a spelling book kept at school- the
 children will be shown their score. Chil
dren can practise their spellings using look, write, cover check at the back of 
their learning log. Times Tables- It is so important all chil
dren are practicing their times tables. This should be done a minimum of 3 t
imes a week but ideally daily. They should be valued in the same way as al
l homework activities. I will be 
awarding stickers/ certificates
 for those playing Times Table Rock Stars if you are using an alternative way to learn 
times tables this is ok. Reading- Reading is still crucial, even once on a free read
er! Books and reading journals 
MUST be in school every day as they use these
 whenever there is time for quiet reading. If you
 have any questions or concerns at any time, please email me via t
he office and I will ge
t back to you as soon as possible.
Missionary & Travel Resources The records and publications of missionaries and exp
lorers are important for African history. Individual autobiographes and other publ
ished work are generally listed in discoverE under the name of the individual aut
hor or organization. Specialized Guide
s and Reference Books: Christian Missions in Africa, a libguide being developed by
 the University of Pennsylvania. The Church in Africa 1450-1950 by Adrian Hastings 
(Theol. BR1360 .H364 1994) is an 
important work on Christian missionary activ
ity . An electronic version is available to the Emory community. Includes an exten
sive bibliography and secti
on on maps. Updated by A History of African Christianity, 1950–1975. Cambrid
ge, UK: Cambridge Universit
y Press, 1979. (BR1360 .H366 also in Theol.) Dictionary of African Christian Biography(Bos
ton University) International Mission Bibliography: 19
60-2000 by Norman E. Thomas.(Theol.Ref. Z7817 .I58 2003 ) Lists th
e most important works in all areas of 
missionary disciplines. The sec
tion on Africa has 1,375 annotated entries covering the history, publications, and archives
 of various missionary groups. Includes an extensive index of names.This is a key resource fo
r identifying and using missionary primary resources
. Missionary and World Christianity Research Guide. (Yale University) Missionary Peri
odicals Database (Yale Univers
ity) aims to record all periodicals on foreign m
issions published in Britain, between the eigh
teenth century and the 1960s, by missionary societies and commercial publisher
s, giving full bibliographical details, informa
tion on contents and
 locations. MUNDUS GATEWAY TO MISSIONARY COLLECTIONS 
IN THE UNITED KINGDOM An important database that contains descriptions of more than 
400 collections accumulated in Britain by individuals a
nd societies engaged in the overseas missionary movement between the eighteenth 
and twentieth centuries. The holdings of over 40 institutions in the U
nited Kingdom are represented. A wide-variety of search tools are included in
cluding map searching which allows you to locate mission groups working in various Af
rican regions. White Men's God: the Extraordinary Story of Missionaries in Africa. Ballard, Ma
rtin. Greenwood. 2008. BV3500 .B24 2008 Theology Sets missionary story in 
larger political context. WOMEN TRAVELERS, EXPLORERS AND MI
SSIONARIES TO AFRICA: 1763-2002 lists accounts of travels published i
n English. This can be used together
 with the print Semper e
x Africa…A Bibliography of Primary Sources for Nineteenth-Century Tropical Africa as Recorded
 by Explorers, Missionaries, Traders, Travelers, Administrators, Military Me
n, Adventurers and Others (Z3501 H37) to locate publishe
d accounts. World Survey of Islamic Manuscripts edited by Geoffrey
 Roper. London:Brill, 1991-1994 . (Z6611.I84W96 )See Also Arabic Manuscripts from
 West Africa Online catalog at Northwestern University. Yale Universit
y Divinity School Library is a world-renowned c
ollection documenting world Christ
ianity and the history of the missionary movement. SEE ITS Missionar
y and World Christianity Research Guide. Ox
ford Bibliographies:Africa
n Studies has several sections of interest: African Chri
stianity; African Traditional Reli
gion which cover scholarship on these to
pics. Also Important : African Research and Documentation. DT19.
8.A35 contains many articles about mississionary archives including "
A Guide to Africa ist Research in the Archive of the American
 Baptist Historical Society," No. 111, 2009, pp 21-29. "Go Ye I
nto the World: Missio
nary Archives in the School of Oriental and African Studies, 
2005, no. 98, pp. 41-68. 
"Feature: Christian Missions in South Africa," South African Historical Journa
l, vol 61, Issue 2, 2009. (DT776 .S585). "Christian Mission Stations 1792-1914,
" Chapter 53, Historical Atlas of A
frica, (Ref. atlas G2446 S1H5 1985) features maps showing the location 
of mission stations throughout Africa as well as the spread of Islam. - International Mission
 Photography Archive(University of Southern California) offers historical
 images from Protestant and Catholic missionary collections in Britain, Norway, Germany,
 France, Switzerland, and the Unite
d States. The photographs, which
 range in time from the middle of the nineteenth to the middle of the twentieth century, offer 
a visual record of missionary a
ctivities and experiences in Africa, China, Madagascar, India, Papua-New Gui
nea, and the Caribbean. Henry Martyn Centre for Mission Studies, Westminster College, 
Cambridge holds some 2,000 photographs dating from the late 19th century chie
fly covering Egypt, Sub-Saharan Africa and India. Images cover
 not only the work of missionaries in fields such as preaching, conversion, education and medici
ne, but also illustrate the lands and the people of the nations in which they served, 
providing a valuable research tool for many academic disciplines. Some have been digitised and are a
vailable on their archi
ve webpages. Missionary Settlements in South Africa, 1800-1925, South A
frican History Online (SAHO) compiled by Franco Frescura. A study of missionary settleme
nt and the spread of Christianity in southern Africa during the pe
riod 1800 - 1925, including a piece on the role of missionari
es, a list of mission stations, and case studies of individual mission statio
ns. Selected Collections at Emory: The Woodruff Library has extensive hold
ings of the records of the Church Missionary Society, the Methodist Chur
ch, the Presbyterian
 Board of Foreign Missions, Regions Beyond Missionary Union, the United Society for the Propa
gation of the Gospel, and the Sudan United Mission (SUM). Search EUCLID under
 name of organization or explorer. Many large 
collections are in microform. Most m
icrofilm holdings are also listed in Emory Micro
film Gateway EMORY MICROFILM GATEWAY incl
udes annotated listings for major microfilm sets in 
the Woodruff Library only. Look under the categories "Africa," "Religion," and 
"Slavery. Not complete. Update though using EUCLID. NOTE: A number of the microform collections ha
ve been digitized in British Records on the Atlan
tic World, 1700-1900 , Archi
ves Unbound, and British Online Archives.
 Currently the only way to reach the Microfilm Gateway
 is to type direct ad
dresses into your web browser: For overall category list type: http://arachne.librar
y.emory.edu/web/libraries/microforms_gateway.html (Note: This allo
ws you to browse subjects but the links will not wor
k. You must type in the individual URLs below.) Slavery: American: http://arachne.library.emory.edu/
web/libraries/microform_slavery_american.html Slavery: British: http://arachne.li
brary.emory.edu/web/libraries/microform_slavery_british.html Woodruff m
icroforms are found on Level 1 which also houses readers a
nd printers. MARBL (Emory's special collections division in Woodruff Library) has a Guide 
to Methodist History which includes missionary material. Papers 
of the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions. (
Theology microfilm BV2360 A4)Harvard
 Guide; Reel List The Pit
ts Theology Library holds a large
 collection representing the missionary activity of the Methodist Church in both print an
d microform. Many holdings can be locat
ed by doing a EUCLID sea
rch under " Methodist Episcopal Ch
urch Missions Africa."
 Also check the Pitts web p
age Sub-Saharan African Collections . Abolition & Emancipation (Mic
film 3143) is an on-going microform collec
tion which includes the pap
ers of Thomas Clarkston, William Wilberforce and other individuals or organizations
 active in the anti-slavery movement. Print and digital guides are available. Africa 
Through Western Eyes (Micfilm 3948) is an ongoing microfilm collection which c
ontains large numbers of small collections of papers of explorers, traders,
 tourists, diplomats, soldiers and missionaries from the 19th th
rough the early 20th centuries. Pr
int and Digital Guides available. Archives Unbound contains 
a variety of topical collections which have been digi
tized including Archives Unbound, Evangelism in Africa: Correspondence of
 the Board of Foreign Missions, 183
5-1910 Presbyterian mission work in
 Africa commenced in
 1833 and throughout the l9
th century expanded to several
 different areas therein. These inc
luded: Liberia, 1833-94; Corsico,
 1850-75; Spanish Guinea, 1865-1924, 1932: Gaboon, 1871-92; Ogowe, 
1874-92; and the Cameroon, 1889-1972. British Records on the Atlantic World, 1700-1900: Cont
ains Early colonial and missionary records from West Africa , Papers of Thomas Perronet 
Thompson relating to Sierra Leone, Papers of the Company of Scotland Trading to Africa and the I
ndies, 1694-1709, The papers of W
illiam Davenport & Co., 1745-1797 and Records rel
ating to the slave trade at the Liverpool Record Office. Church Missionary Society Arch
ive (CMS) (micfilm 3309; Section IV is Africa but also look in General section
s) About 2/3 of the CMS archives has b
een filmed. More info about CMS Archives. 1896 Map 
of CMS missions in Africa and explorers. You will find other missionary arc
hives listed at http://arachne.library.emory.edu/web/lib
raries/microform_religion_missions.html (paste in
to your browser) Empire Online features a wide varie
ty of material including: exploration journals and logs; letter books and correspondence; periodical
s; diaries; official governmentpPapers; missionary papers; travel writin
g; slave papers; memoirs; folk tales; exhibition catalogues and guid
es; Maps; Photographs; and Illustrations for the British Empire. No
t limited to Africa. Gold Coast record
s from the archives of the USPG, 1886-1951 (also microf
ilm 4042 Woodruff Library) Guide Monumenta Missionaria Africana. Africa Ocidental, f
irst and second series by Antonia Br
asio (BV 3500 .B67 & BV3500 .B672) is a multivolume set 
documenting the history of the Catholic Church in
 Africa. Considered to be a standard source documenting European activities in Africa 
prior to 1700. Travel Descriptions of South Africa 1711-1938 is an 
extensive collection of published explorer's accounts
 in microfiche (Microfiche 1569). Each accou
nt is also individually cataloged in EUCLID. Slavery, Abolition and S
ocial Justice, 1490-2007 is an important portal for slavery and abolition studie
s, bringing together 
original manuscripts and rare printed material from librar
ies and archives across the Atlantic world for the period 1490-
2007. Close attention is being given to the varieties of slavery, the legacy of slavery, the social 
justice perspective and the continued existence of slavery tod
ay. Universities' Mission to Central Africa William Wiberfor
ce: Slavery, Religion and Politics (Micfilm 4003) contai
ns papers from the Bodleian Librar
y, Oxford, Wilberforce House, Hull, etc. Print and dig
ital guides available. HINT: There are numerous other ant
i-slavery collections of interest. 
Check discoverE for holdings and look for other research guides in African-America
n Studies. Emory is also a member of the Center for Research Libraries (CRL) a co
nsortial lending library of rarer materials. CRL colle
ctions include missionary materials in a variety of formats. See To
pic guide for Religion/Philosphyand African St
udies. All CRL materials can be borrowe
d by Emory researchers or used online.
A representative of the American clothing industry recently made the following stateme
nt: “Workers in Asia often work in sweatshop co
nditions earning only pennies an hour. American workers are more
 productive and as a result earn higher wages
. In order to preserve th
e dignity of the American workplace, the government sho
uld enact legislation ban
ning imports of low - wage A
sian clothing.” In the ancient country of Roma, only t
wo goods, spaghetti 
and meatballs, are produced. There 
are two tribes in Roma, the Tivoli and th
e Frivoli. By themselves, the Tivoli each month can produce either 30 pounds of spaghet
ti and no meatballs, or 50 pounds 
of meatballs and no spa
ghetti, or any combination in between. The Frivoli, by themselves, each month can produce 
40 pounds of spaghetti and no meatballs, or 30 pounds of meatballs and no spaghet
ti, or any combination in between. According to the U.S.
 Census Bureau, in July 2006 the United States exported aircr
aft worth $1 billion to China and imported aircraft worth only $19,000 from C
hina. During the same month, however, the United States imported $
83 million worth of men’s trousers, slacks, and jeans from China but exported only $8,000 worth of
 trousers, slacks, and jeans to China. Using what you have learned about h
ow trade is determined by comparative advantage, answer the 
following questions.
Tree Shade Adaptation of Turfgrass Species and Culti
vars in France1 - A. Chesnel, - R. Croise and - B. Bourgoin
 The comparative shade adaptation of the principle cool-season turfgrass species was investigated 
under a natural tree shade environment in 1974 and 1975. Two trials were conducted. One 
was established at Ets Vilmo
rin at Beaufort en Valleé near
 Angers, France on an acidic sandy soil under the shade of leafy, con
iferous trees and the second site was established by the Institut Na
tional de la Recherche Agronomique (INRA) at 
Poitiers, France on a clay soil with a very dense tree canopy. Compara
tive adaptation of the various cool-season turfgrass species varied between the two 
sites in 1974 and 1975. The bentgrass (Agrostis spp
.) species were best at the Beaufort en Valleé site while shade 
(Festuca heterophylla Lam.) and red (F. rubra L.) fescues and roughstalk bluegrass (Poa
 trivialis L.) were the most promising at Poitiers. Most of the cool-
season species and cultivars evaluated in the test had almost completely disappeared in both shade s
ites by late 1975. The rate of disappearance was greater at Poitiers 
which was attributed to the greater shade canopy density and lower cultural
 intensity.Please view the pdf by using
 the Full Text (PDF) link under 'View' to the left. Co
pyright © 1980. . Copyright © 19
80 by the American Society of Agronomy, Crop Science Society of Am
erica, Soil Science Society of America, and International Tu
rfgrass Society, 5585 G
uilford Rd., Madison, WI 53711 USA
Ballet is a performance type of dance originating from Italy then develop
ed in France, but was further developed in Russia in the 1920’s. Various techniques are used in B
allet that involve various moves. The main types of dance
 moves include: Allegro: A dance which involves fast and brisk steps. Glasses ne
ed to be secure for this sequence because it’s fast paced. Pirouette turns: Spinning on one leg an
d leaving the other leg off the ground. Take caution with this move. Coupé-jete’ en t
ournant: During this move, dancers jump and turn simultaneously either i
n a circle or in a straigh
t line. Wearing specs will 
not get in the way. Grand P
lies: This move involves bending your knees, and at the same tim
e lowering your head with a full turn circle of the head. Coordinating the mo
vement gracefully could be challenging for 
dancers. Sauté: This r
outine is about taking small jumps with a great deal of energy. They are warm up jum
ps, which could cause specs to fall off unexpectedl
y. Ballon: This involves a danc
er being suspended whil
e making dance moves. Have You Ever Seen a Ballerina Wearing Specs? It is not rare 
to see a Ballerina wear glasses while performing an Allegro or Ballon, but some
 might prefer contact lenses
. You might want to switch between the two i.e. contact
s and glasses, or wear glasses for your day to day activities 
but switch to contacts just before your exiting performance. It is very important for dancers to 
see clearly and crucial for catching t
hings. Some Ballerinas even comp
lain about not being able to see the teacher’s facial expression which makes it h
arder to perform, not knowing if the teacher has made a gesture or eye contact. Some Bal
let teachers are sometimes reluctant to allow Ballerinas to wear specs for shows or upcoming p
erformances. But, they are quite happy for them to wear them during rehearsals or trai
ning sessions. Switch from contacts to g
lasses. Don’t give up on wearing specs just b
ecause you are a Ballerina. Ensure they a
re well fastened and not slipping off your face. Avoid fiddling with them because this will cau
se a distraction. However, glasses are ide
al for those who are short sighted as they help to s
pot those hidden corners, preventing acc
idents. As glasses could easily fly off their heads during a routine danc
e. For safety reasons, invest in a pair of lightweight frames 
similar to these Oakley OX8105 
PITCHMAN R goggles below. Al
so, when doing your turns and sweating simultane
ously, glasses can slide off your face, giving you a 
headache. Alternatively, practice your routines with glasses then swap to c
ontact lenses like these Ciba
 vision Air Optic Colors below for the performances. Some Ballerinas are severely myop
ic and cannot dance without glasses. If contacts haven’t worked for you either, then i
t might be worth buying a special f
astener, tape or equipment to keep them glued on temporarily. Get regular checks at 
the opticians who can adjust them and make sure they are the correct fit and also to ens
ure the glasses are in good working cond
ition. Invest in a light frame av
oiding thicker, heavier glasses that are likely to wei
gh you down. Wear your specs with pride regardless. It’s all about finding that bala
nce and not taking the slightes
t notice of the audience. If your prescribed specs make you feel comfort
able then it will be beneficial to keep them on them. Learn more about musical star styles
 Tag #SelectSpecsSelfie for a chance to be featured on our page!
DNA from an ancient 
baby’s skeleton shows that all Native Americans descend from a
 single gene pool. And their ancestral roots are in As
ia, a new study finds. The bones came from a roughly 12- to 18-month-old boy. He died about 12,600 y
ears ago in what is now Mo
ntana. Construction workers uncovered the grave in 1968. 
It remains the only known burial site of a person fr
om the Clovis culture. Clovis is th
e name of prehistoric people. They lived in what is now the Unite
d States and northern Mexico between about 13,000 and 12,600 
years ago. They made a type of stone spear point that differs from stone tools found elsewhere in t
he world at the time. The young boy had been covered in
 red ochre. It’s a natural pigment that had of
ten been used in burial rituals at the
 time. More than 100 tools had been placed atop his body when it was buried.
 Those tools also had been dipped in re
d ochre. Some were the
 stone spear points or tools used to make the spear points.. People had fashioned 
rods from elk antlers, 
a rare material in Montana at the time. The bone tools were 13,000 years old — hundreds of years o
lder than the child’s parents. The bone rods had been deliberately broken before being placed wit
h the boy’s body. That suggests thes
e ancient tools could have been family “heirlooms,” the
 scientists say. All of tho
se details are fairly old. Decades old, at least. What’s new are analyses of the C
lovis child’s DNA. Just reported in the Fe
b. 13 Nature, they indicate that the Clovis people were ancestors of all present-day N
ative Americans. And like today’s Native Americans, 
the Clovis baby — known as Anzick-1 — can trace part of his heritage to a child known as the
 Mal’ta boy. He lived in Siberia 24,000 years ago. That link now suggests that all Native American p
opulations share a common Asian heritage. This is where the Clovis bab
y’s skeleton was unearthed. The pole (center left) marks the burial site, which
 look out towards scenic, snow-capped mountains. From Asian 
— not European — roots “This clearly shows that the homeland of the first A
mericans was Asia,” says study coauthor Michael Waters. He’s a geologist and archaeologis
t at Texas A&M University in College Statio
n. The study may put to rest a
n oft-reported idea that ancient Europeans crossed the A
tlantic and established the Clovis culture. That idea has been
 known as the Solutrean hypothesis. The new analysis is “the last spade full of ea
rth on the grave of t
he Solutrean hypothesis,” says Jennifer Raff. 
An anthropological geneticist, she works at the Univ
ersity of Texas at Austin. She had no role in the current analysis. The study a
lso may settle speculation about the Clovis people’s relationship to modern Native
 Americans. Clovis culture was widespread for
 400 years after the last Ice Age. Other styles of
 tool making eventually replaced the distinctive stone spear points made by Clovis people. That 
was among clues indicating that other American settlers might hav
e replaced the Clovis people. “Their technology and tools vanish
ed, but now we understand t
hat their genetic le
gacy lives on,” says Sarah Anzick, a coauthor of the new study
. Anzick was 2 years old when the baby’s
 grave was found on her family’s land. Since then
, she and her family have been stewards of the bones, keeping them r
espectfully preserved and locked away. Resp
ecting the bones In time, Anzick became a molecular biolo
gist, at one point working on the Human Genome Project. (Completed
 in April 2003, it gave scientists an ability to read a person’s full genetic blueprints.) B
ased on that experience, An
zick made it a personal g
oal to decipher the Clovis baby
’s DNA. So she travele
d with the child’s bones to the lab of Eske Willerslev. He’s an evolutionary genet
icist at the University of Copenhag
en, in Denmark. There, she helped extract DNA from the skeleton and performed some of th
e initial tests. Willerslev and his colleagues completed the 
rest of the toddler’s geneti
c blueprints. Their examination shows that about one-third of t
he Clovis baby’s genome traces back to th
e ancient Siberian people, says Wil
lerslev. The remainder, he says, comes from an an
cestral East Asian population. The new data suggest East Asians and Siberians interbred before th
e Clovis era. Their descendants would have become the founding population for all later Nat
ive Americans. About four out of five Native Americans, mainly those in Central and S
outh America, probably descend
 directly from the Anzick baby’s people, Wi
llerslev says. Other native peoples, su
ch as those in Canada, are closely related to the Clovis child. They, however, 
come from a different branch of the family. Anzick iand members of several Nativ
e American tribes are preparing to rebury the baby’s remains where his parents had lef
t him more than 12 millennia ago. It’s at the base of a sandstone cliff. The site overlooks
 a creek with views of three mountain 
ranges. archaeology The study of human history and prehistory through the excavation of sites an
d the analysis of artifacts and other physical remains. Peopl
e who work in this field are known as archaeologists. Clovis people Prehistoric humans w
ho inhabited much of North America between about 13,000 and 12,600 years ago. They are known primar
ily by the cultural artifacts they left behind, especially a
 type of stone point used on hunting spears. It’s called the Clovis point. It was named after Clovis
, New Mexico, where someone first found this type of stone tool. gene A segmen
t of DNA that codes, or holds instructions, for producing a protein. Offspring inherit genes from th
eir parents. Genes influence how
 an organism looks and behaves. evolutionary genetics A field of biology that fo
cuses on how genes — and the traits they lead to — change over long periods of time (potentiall
y over millennia or more). People who work in this field are known as evolutionary geneticist
s genome The complete set of genes or genetic material in a cell or an organism. geol
ogy The study of Ear
th’s physical structure and substance, its history and the processes that act on it. People who work
 in this field are known as geologists. Ice Age Earth has experienced at least fiv
e major Ice Ages, which are prolonged per
iods of unusually cold weather experienced by much of the planet. During that time,
 which can last hundreds to thousands of years, glaciers and ice sheets expand in size and 
depth. The most recent Ice Age peaked 21,500 years ago, but cont
inued until about 13,000 year
s ago. molecular biology The branch of biology
 that deals with the structure and function of molecule
s essential to life. Scientists who work in this field are called molecula
r biologists. pigment A material, like the natural colorin
gs in paints and dyes, 
that alter the light reflected off of an object or transmitted through it. The ov
erall color of a pigment typically 
depends on which wavelengths of visible light it absorbs and whi
ch ones it reflects. For exampl
e, a red pigment tends t
o reflect red wavelengths of light very well and typically absorbs other color
s. red ochre A natural pigment often been used in ancient burial rituals. Solutrean h
ypothesis The idea that ancient Europeans crossed the Atlantic 
and established the Clovis culture. Stone Age A prehistoric period, lasting millions of years and en
ding tens of thousands of years ago, when weapons and tools were
 made of stone or of materials such as bone, wood, or horn.
The Suez Canal Bridge, also known as the Shohada 25 January Bridge or the Egyptia
n-Japanese Friendship Bridge, is 
a road bridge crossing the Suez Canal at E
l Qantara. The Arabic "al qantara" means "the bridge". The
 bridge links the contin
ents of Africa and Asia. The bridge was built with assistanc
e from the Japanese government. The contractor was PentaOcean Construction. The Japanese gra
nt, accounting for 60% of the construction cost (or 13.5 billion yen), was agr
eed to during the visit of
 then-President Mubarak to Japan in March 1995, as part of a larger project to develop 
the Sinai Peninsula. 
Egypt bore the remaining 40% 
(9 billion yen). The bridge opened in October 2001. T
he bridge, which has a 70-
metre (230 ft) clearance over the canal and is 3.9 kilometres (2.4 mi) long, consists of 
a 400-metre (1,300 ft
) cable-stayed main span and two 1.8-ki
lometre (1.1 mi) long
 approach spans.
Math Field Day Events Math 
Field Day is designed to stimulate interest in mathematics and 
to recognize mathematical ability and achievement among Michigan high school 
students. Any secondary school in Michigan is eligible to participate. Each school’s 
team consists of at most five students. The contestants may be in any grade
, except that only freshmen and sophomores are eligible for Mad 
Hatter B. Each team must be accompanied by a faculty advisor to
 help proctor events. THE TEAM: The team of five members consists of two s
tudents for the Leapfrog, one student for the Chalk Talk, one student for the
 Mad Hatter A, and one student (who
 must be a freshman or so
phomore) for the Mad Hatter B competition. Teams with less than five members are welcome;
 they are subject to the same rules and are eligible for all awards. Each student may e
nter only one individual event. Each school may sele
ct its team as it wishes. THE INDIVIDUAL EVENTS: 1. Chalk Talk. This event calls for the 
preparation and delivery of a clear, sound, and convincing mathematical
 discussion. Each student will present a five-minute chalkboard tal
k before a faculty judge. Each speaker will be questioned at the end of the talk. Notes may be
 used, if necessary, bu
t the fewer notes the better. A memorized talk is neither required nor desired
. Visual aids may be used if truly appropriate for a particular topic, but only as a supp
lement to the chalkboard presentation. Students wil
l be judged on the presentation, mathematical content, chalkboard use
, and response to ques
tions. Penalties will be given for exceedi
ng the five-minute time limit. Entrants should prepare a talk on one o
f two topics to be announced soon. A list of recommended references will be provided. There will
 be one winner in each of the assigned chalk talk rooms. 2.
 Leapfrog. This event calls for the ability to work with a partner to solve chal
lenging mathematical problems. Problems will be chosen from all high school subjects in 
mathematics, and some will require original thinki
ng. The two designated students from each team work to
gether in one 50-minute session. A set of eight questions
 is provided. The team members decide how to organize their time and effort. 
They may communicate very quietly and should check each 
other's work. Problems are graded either right or wrong, with no partial credit given. To enc
ourage proper checking, the
 score is twice the number of right an
swers minus the number of wrong answers, with b
lank answers not counted. 3. Mad Hatter A. This is a rapid computation and reasoning contest in whic
h problems are shown on a scre
en. The student works the problem and writes the answer on an answer sheet. As 
soon as enough time h
as passed for about half the students to work the problem, th
e next problem is given. There are 40 problems. Mad Hatter B. This competi
tion is similar to the Mad Hatter A but is open only to freshmen and sophomores. THE TEAM EVENT
S: 4. Swiss Game. Two teams are interleaved. Team members receive a 
list of paired values based on a secret rule, with some values missing. Members of th
e two teams alternate guesses of missing values, and teams
 receive points for correct guesses. There are four games. 5. Team Essay. The entire team works to
gether to explore a mathematical topic, guided by a series
 of questions. At the end of forty minutes, the team turns in one answer to eac
h question. Each answer is written in the form of an essay. Answers will be judg
ed on mathematical content, grammar, and the
 style in which they are written. 6. Relays. Each team member is given a probl
em requiring for its complete solution the answer to another member’s problem. Answers are passed f
rom one member to the next, with 
the anchor person handing answers to the team’s proctor. Only the answer handed in is cons
idered, and points are awarded 
for correct answers based on the elapsed tim
e. There are four relays. 7. Huddle. Each team is assigned a room with a blackboard and given ten m
inutes to solve four problems. THE AWARDS: Awards are presented at the end of
 the day. Medals are given for individual events, and plaques are given for the Ess
ay. Five books and a trophy for overall team performance are awarded to a Gra
nd Champion team and nine other teams: first, second, 
and third place teams in three divisions based on school enrollment and draw.
 Corrected student papers and an overall scoresheet will be mailed
 to advisors the week after t
he competition.
The USDA is helping 
honeybees with plans to spend $3 mil
lion to improve farmlands and pastures in the Midwest and in the process help feed bees that in rece
nt years have seen their numbers continually dwindle due to the phenomenon known as colony
 collapse disorder. On Tuesday, the U.S. Department of Agriculture announced plan
s aimed at helping farmers a
nd ranchers in Michigan, Minnesota, Wisconsin and the Dakotas by 
improving pastures frequented by honeybees. Many beekeepers bring hives to the Upper Midwest in the 
summer for bees to gather nectar and pollen for food, the Associated Press re
ported . The honeybees are
 then trucked to Calif
ornia and other states in the spring where they pollinate everything 
from almonds to apples to avocad
oes. Urgent: Do You Approve Or Disapprove of P
resident Obama's Job Performance? Vote Now in Urgent Poll "Honey bee pollination supports an es
timated $15 billion worth of agricultural production, including more than 130 fruits and vegetable
s that are the foundation of a nutritious diet," Agriculture Secretary T
om Vilsack said in a press release "
The future security of America’s food supply depends on healthy
 honey bees," Vilsack added. "Expanded support for research, com
bined with USDA’s other efforts to improve honey bee he
alth, should help America’s beekeepers combat the current, unprec
edented loss of honey bee hives each year." Since the winter of 
2006, as much as one-third of the nation's honeybees have 
disappeared due to colony collapse disorder Though the official cause of t
he massive honey bee die-off has yet to be d
etermined, scientists and beekeepers alike 
suspect that pesticides likely play a role. Additionally, the arri
val of Varroa mites, which reportedly spread a virus among bees, has increased the honey bee's de
cline to a greater extent, according to scientists. The
 USDA hopes to stem those losses by 
providing more areas for bees to build up food stores and st
rength for winter. The new program will be
 "a real shot in the arm" for improving bees' habitat and food supply, 
said Jason Weller, chief of USDA's Natural Resources Conservation Service, the AP reported. In or
der to qualify for the USDA money, dairy farmers and 
ranchers in the above mentioned Midwest states must reseed pastures with alfalfa, clover and o
ther plants appealing to both bees and livestock. The m
oney can also reportedly be
 used towards the construction of fences to preven
t grazing animals from wandering into pastures preferred by the bees and grazing on the vegetati
on that attracts the valuable, pollinating insects.
 "It's a win for the livestock guys, and it's a win 
for the managed hone
ybee population," Weller added. "And it's a win then for orchardi
sts and other specialty crop producers across the nation because then you're going 
to have a healthier, more robust bee population that then 
goes out and helps pollina
te important crops." In it
s press release, the 
USDA estimates that 65 percent of the nation's estimated 30,000 commercial beekeepers bring th
eir hives to the five states above, which is the reason why they were selected. Editor's Note: Ob
amaCare Is Here. Are You Prepared? © 2014 Newsmax. All rights reserved.
The ORBIS Flying Eye Hospital
 is literally a hospital with wings that brings together dedicated e
ye care professionals and aviators to give the gift of sight to develo
ping countries around the world. ORBIS is a nonprofit, glob
al development organization whose mission is to eliminate avoidable blindness in
 developing countries. The majority of ORBIS projects concentrate o
n avoidable blindness among children. Onboard the refurbished
 DC-10 jet aircraft, local doctors, nurses and technicians work alongs
ide ORBIS’s international medical team to exchange knowle
dge and improve skills. Since its first flight in 1982, the ORBIS Flying Eye Hospital
 has traveled to more than 70 countries and h
as directly treated more than 9.7 million p
eople for blindness-relate
d diseases and conditions
. By training local doctors and eye care workers, who in turn teach their colleagues, ORBI
S is strengthening the capabilit
ies of local health care communities in blindness 
prevention and treatment.
There are many ways to find articles i
n the ISU Library, all beginning at the e-Library homepage. Here are five diff
erent approaches to consid
er--choose the one that best meets your need! In the Quick 
Search box on the e-Library homepage, use the first drop-down menu to select "Articles." If you wi
sh, you can use the remaining drop-down menus to provide additional information about your keyword(s
). The system will retrieve articles from the Quick Search Articles database, a single collectio
n of over 400 million articles from m
ajor journal publishers and open access repositories. Many of the articles y
ou retrieve will be available in full-text. Not all article databases are available via Quick S
earch. For more database options, or
 to search a specific article database through its own unique interface, try... Article Indexes
 & Databases On the Article Indexes and Databases page, you ca
n use the subject/research area and sub-
category dropdowns to
 see a list of subject-related databas
es, browse alphabetically by database title or use the Titl
e search to locate a specific database. To search th
e database, click on the database name. To view information about a database, click on t
he information icon that follows some (but not all) d
atabase names. If you're looking for a specific electronic journal, you can use
 the Journals (A-Z) link on the e-Library homepage. Currently, this tool provid
es access to e-journals only. Journals 
that are available only in printed format cannot be accessed in this way. Inst
ead, you must use Quick Search. Spe
cific article by citation If you're looking for a specific known article, you can enter the artic
le title and identifying information for 
the journal in Citation Linker. Librarians at ISU have prepared numerous guides to supp
ort research--both basic and advanced--in a variety of subject areas. Some guides 
are tailored to specific ISU courses. Often these guide
s provide helpful informat
ion on locating articles in relevant j
ournals, magazines, and newspapers. Need more he
lp? Contact staff at the Help & Information Desk during its open hours, or 
Ask us!
Nicene and Post-Nicene Fathers, Vol. V:Early Church Fathers Index Previous Next A Work on the Pr
oceedings of Pelagius.: Chapter 3 Chapter 3.—Discussion of Pelagius
 First Answer. Now to say that “a man is by the knowledge of the law assisted towards not
 sinning,” is a different assertion from saying that “a man cannot be without sin unles
s he has acquired a kn
owledge of the law.” We see, for example, that corn-floors may be
 threshed without threshing-sledges,—h
owever much these may assist the oper
ation if we have them; and that boys can find their way to school without the pedagog
ue,—however valuable for this may be the office of pedagogues; and that many p
ersons recover from sickness without physicians,—although the doctors skill is 
clearly of greatest use; and that men sometimes live o
n other aliments besides bread,—howe
ver valuable the use of bread must needs be allowed to be; and ma
ny other illustrations may occur to the tho
ughtful reader, without 
our prompting. From which e
xamples we are undoubtedly reminded that there are two sorts of aids. Some are indispensable, a
nd without their help the desired result could not be attained. W
ithout a ship, for instance, no man could take a voyage; no man could speak 
without a voice; without legs no man cou
ld walk; without light nobo
dy could see; and so on in numberless instance
s. Amongst them this also may be reckoned, that without Gods grace no man can live rightly
. But then, again, there are other helps, which render us assistance in such a w
ay that we might in some other way effect the object to which they are ordinarily auxiliary in th
eir absence. Such are those which I have already
 mentioned,—the threshing-sledges for threshing corn, the pedagogue for conducting the ch
ild, medical art applied to the recovery of health, and other like instances. We have therefo
re to inquire to which of these two classes belongs the knowledg
e of the law,—in other words, to consider in what way it helps us towards the avoidan
ce of sin. If it be in the sense of indispensable aid without which the end cannot be attained; not
 only was Pelagius answer be
fore the judges true, but what he wrote in his book was true also. If, however, it
 be of such a character that it helps indeed if it is present, but even if it be absent,
 then the result is still pos
sible to be attained by some other means,—his answer to t
he judges was still true, and not unreasonably did it find favour with the bishops that “man is ass
isted not to sin by the knowled
ge of the law;” but what he wrote in his book is not true, 
that “there is no man without sin except him who has acquired a knowledge of the law,”—a 
statement which the jud
ges left undiscussed, as they were ignorant
 of the Latin language, and we
re content with the confession of the man who was pleading his cause before them, especially as
 no one was present on the other side who 
could oblige the interpreter to expose his meaning by an explanation of the 
words of his book, a
nd to show why it was
 that the brethren were not groundlessly disturbed. For but very few pers
ons are thoroughly acquainted with the law. The mass of the members of Christ, who are scatte
red abroad everywhere, being ignorant of the very profound and complicated contents 
of the law, are commended by the piety of simple faith and unfailing hope in God, and
 sincere love. Endowed with such gifts, they trus
t that by the grace of God they may be purged from their sins through our 
Lord Jesus Christ. Next: Chapter 4
 Like & share St-Takla.org © Saint Takla Haymanout Website: Copti
c Orthodox Church - Alexandria, Egypt / URL: http://St-Takla.org / Contact us at
Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Queensland Aboriginal
 and Torres Strait Islander-related collections available through State Library. Contemp
orary stories and videos about and by Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people. (Please not
e: the stories may contain references to or images of
 people who are deceased.) The history and culture of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islande
r people and communities in Queensland is diverse, ric
h and alive. Details and locations of Indigenous Knowledge Centres (IKC) throughou
t Queensland as part of partnerships between Local Governments and State Library. 
Discover what’s happening behind the scenes an
d dig deeper into events, e
xhibitions and activities at kuril dhagun (SLQ’s Indigenous Knowledge Cen
tre), throughout SLQ and in the wider Queensland community kuril dhagun is a space within St
ate Library's South Bank building devoted to Aboriginal and Torres Strai
t Islander culture. Find out about Aboriginal and Torres Stra
it Islander languages, language centres and language 
resources in Queensland. Information about plans, protocols, policies and strategies relating
 to Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people used by
 State Library. Indigenous resour
ces available at State Library include books and other material, articles in online databa
ses, images and websites. State Library of Queensland provides special library
 services for members who have an SLQ membership card (formerly
 known as an e-services card). Discover 
an eclectic range of books, gifts, reproduction p
rints and more at the Library Shop.
The U.S. Department of Homeland Security reco
mmends all individuals take the time to learn more about what is often termed as an 
“active shooter.” An Active Shooter is an individual actively engaged in killing or
 attempting to kill people in a confined and populated area; in most cases, active shooters us
e firearms and there is no pattern or method to their selection of victims. Active shooter situati
ons are unpredictable and evolve qui
ckly. Typically, the immediate deployment of law enforcement is required to stop the 
shooting and mitigate harm to victims. Because active shooter situations are often over within 10 to
 15 minutes, before law enforcement arrives on the scene, individuals must 
be prepared both mentally and physically to deal with an active shoot
er situation. Good practices for coping with an active shooter situa
tion Be aware of your environment and any possible dan
gers. Take note of the exits in any facility you vi
sit. If you are in an office, stay there and secure the door. If you are in a hallway, get
 into a room and secure the door. Call 9-1-
1 when it is safe to do so. Since 2002, the Advanced Law Enforcement Rapid Resp
onse Training (ALERRT)™ Program at Texas State Univer
sity has been used to train law enforcement officers across the natio
n in how to rapidly respond to dangerous active threat situations. Ov
er the years we’ve seen response times shorten and the capabilities of la
w enforcement increase. As a result of increased publi
c awareness, many citizens have asked what individuals
 can do protect themselves and reduce the 
dangers faced during one of thes
e events. Avoid | Deny |Defend™ has bee
n developed as an easy to remember method for individuals to 
follow. As we’ve seen that 
hiding and hoping isn’t a very effective strategy.
Ever heard of hydroforming? It’s a manufacturing process used to form sheet metal into shapes u
sing water at extremely high pressures. Not something you can do at ho
me… unless of course 
you’re [Colin Furze]. Hydroforming works by evenly distributing pres
sure via water (conveniently, in-compressible) against sheet metal inside of a mold
. Many automotive parts are created in this fashion. Typical systems ru
n at around 15,000 PS
I. After building a giant pulse jet engine (complete with butt) to
 fart on France, [Colin] g
ot the idea from a YouTube comment to try to do hydroforming at hom
e — bending the sheet metal for the giant derriere wasn
’t that easy. Hydroforming on the other hand is a surprisingly simple process. Weld so
me sheet metal together, add a pipe fitting to 
connect your cheap pressure washer and boom 
— hydoformed metal parts. Whoa — aren’t we missing a step here? Ty
pical hydroforming uses a mold to pu
sh the sheet metal against in order to form a shape. [Colin’s] first attempts are m
old-less which limits the complexity of parts he’s able to form — although he is able to make
 a pretty nice conical exhaust for his souped
 up mobility scooter… I
n the next video he promises to make something very
 functional out of the process so we’re excited to see what he comes 
up with. It might be feasible to make molds using concrete, so th
at may be a possibility. Don’t forget your safety tie if you’re going to 
try this!
icefishArticle Free Pass icefish, any of sever
al different fishes, among them certain members o
f the family Channichthyidae, or Chaenichthyidae (order Percifor
mes), sometimes called cr
ocodile icefish because of the
 shape of the snout. They are also called white
-blooded fish, because they lack red blood cells a
nd hemoglobin. Their blood carries much less oxygen than that of red-b
looded fish, but icefis
h have larger hearts and gill 
blood vessels to circulate a greater volume of 
blood, and this extracts sufficient oxygen from the oxygen-rich waters of t
he Southern Ocean. Most of the 16 species of crocodile icefis
hes occur in the Antarctic and feed on crustaceans and small fish. What made 
you want to look up "icefish"? Please share what surprised you mo
st...
51. The overall description of a database is calledâ€¦â€¦â€¦â€¦â€
¦â€¦ 52. Disadvantages of File systems to store data is: 53. Which is the centra
l component of the DBMS software that 
can also be termed as the database control system? 54. Data are stor
ed inâ€¦â€¦â€¦â€¦â€¦â€¦as database: 55. Transaction is an
 action used to perform 
some manipulation on data stored in theâ€¦â€¦â€¦â€¦â€¦â€¦ 56. Which is stored information
 about description of data in the database: 57. In an Entity-Relationship Diagram Rectangles rep
resents 58. DBA stands for: 59. Which is the person responsible for overall control f the dat
abase system: 60. â€¦â€¦â€¦... is a translates into low
-level instruction that a query processor understands: MCQ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers on 
Database Management System - DBMS Database Management System - DBMS Triv
ia Questions and Answers PDF Database Management System -
 DBMS Question and Answer US
A - United States of America Canada United Kingdom Aust
ralia New Zealand South America Brazil Portugal Netherland South Africa Ethiopia Zambia Singapore 
Malaysia India China UAE - Saudi Ara
bia Qatar Oman Kuwait Bahra
in Dubai Israil England Scotland Norw
ay Ireland Denmark France Spain Poland and many more....
The Treasure Chest is updated several times a year to f
eature different materials housed in the Spe
cial Collection department. Among the things people have done to decor
ate books over the years, putting clasps on them is one of the more uncommon today, b
ut historically was pretty popular. Clasp
s made sense in the beginning. Books were made f
rom vellum, a dried animal skin, which reacted poorly to changes in humidity. As it dried out, vel
lum would warp and w
rinkle. Heavy clasps on books helped keep them closed while the vellum pages shifted and protecte
d the books from splaying wide op
en. Or at least, that's on
e theory. The truth is, we'll p
robably never know exactly why people stuc
k clasps on books in 
the beginning, but clasps w
ere quite popular. Once paper became the primary mater
ial for book pages, replacing vellum, the clasps were used 
to relieve strain on the binding and helped hold the book closed. 
In England and France, the clasp was on the cover and t
he catch on the back, but in the rest of Europe the
 positions were reversed. Since books were stacked up, rather than placed on 
shelves at the time, the clasps didn't pose a problem. When people
 began shelving books side by side, as we do today, the problems with clasps bega
n. Not only did clasps rub and dig into neighboring books, often damaging them, but they couldn't be
 seen and the pressure from the surrounding books on the shelves was usually e
nough to keep books closed, rendering clasps ob
solete. In the 17th centur
y, clasps were falling out of fashion. By the 18th century, they were practically 
non-existent, except on very large books. By the da
ys of the Civil War, clasps were entirely d
ecorative, their original purpose long forgotten. Clasps can be seen on religious books, diaries, 
and sometimes on photo albums today, mostly because they look pretty, but never o
n a popular novel or text b
ook. Arndt, Johann. Postille: das ist, Ge
ist-reiche Erklarung der Evangelischen Texte durchs gantze Jahr, aufs alle Sonn
-hohe und andere fest- und Apostel-Tage, sampt einer durchgehenden Betrachtung über die gantze
 Passions-Historie. Franckfurt: Verlegt von Joh. Davi
d Zunners, sel. Erben und J.A. Jungen,
 1713. Carter, John. ABC f
or Book-Collectors. New York: Alfred A.
 Knopf, 1970. Curry, JLM. Photo
graph Album. SC Collectio
n Number: SC 186 Manly, Basil, and B. Manly. The Baptist Psalmody: A Selectio
n of Hymns for the Worship of God. Philadelphia: J.B. Lippincott, 1870.
Army worms are light brown to dark tan, mos
tly hairless Caterpillars (Moth larva) with yellow or brown stripes
 that run the length of their 1½ to 2-inch 
long bodies. Caterpillars are the larvae of moths and butterflies. Caterpillars can be sm
ooth, hairy or spiky. Cutworms are large, up to 2-inch long, hairless 
caterpillars, the larvae of night
-flying moths. Cut worms are a major pest to vegetable gardens, flowers and lawns in the United Stat
es. They curl into a "C" shape when d
isturbed.
, Research Paper The Life and Legend of Howard Hughes Th
roughout the 20th century, it has b
een the media’s job to pinpoint what events and people would prove to be an effective story.
 This was certainly the case for Howard R. Hughes.
 Son to the wealthy Howard Hughes Sr., Howard became the interest of the American peop
le and newspapers for most of his life. Being deemed one of the most famou
s men of the mid-20th cen
tury was greatly attributed to Hughes’s skills as a
n industrialist, aviator, and motion-picture producer combined with his enormous wealth, intel
lect, and achievement. The media thrived on Howard’s unusual and some
times scandalous life, especially in his later yea
rs when newspapers would frequently fron
t large amounts of money to get storie
s on Hughes. Howard was also assoc
iated with what has been called one o
f the greatest publishing hoaxes in history. Howard Hughes Sr.
, commonly known as Big Howard, was a graduate
 of the Harvard School of Law, yet never once appeared before a court of law. Big Howard s
pent the first 36 years of his life chasing money across the Texas plains, as a wildcatter and a sp
eculator in oil leases, working hard en
ough and earning just enough 
to move on to another, hopefully more fortunate gamble. In the yea
r of his marriage, Big Howard sold leases on land that proved to have 
$50,000 in oil beneath it. He promptly took his new wife to E
urope for a honeymoon, and re
turned exactly $50,000 poorer. I
n 1908, Big Howard turned his ingenuity and his hobby to tinker into good 
fortune. Current drilling technology was unab
le to penetrate the thick rock of southwest Texas and oilmen could only extract the 
surface layers of oil, unable to tap the vast resources th
at lay far below. Big Howard came up with the idea for a rolling bit, with 166 cutting edges and i
nvented a method to keep the bit lubricated as it tore away at th
e rock. Later that year, Big Howard produced a model and wen
t into business with his leasing p
artner, Walter B. Sharp, forming the Sharp-Hughes Tool Company. Rather th
an sell the bits to oil drillers, Hughes and Sharp decided to lease the bits out on a job basis
, for the tidy sum of $30,000 per well. With no competitor able to duplic
ate this new technology, Sharp- Hughes Tool possessed a profitable 
monopoly over oil extraction. So quickly was the invent
ion successful that in late 1908, the pa
rtners built a factory on a seventy-acre site east of Houst
on. On 1915, Sharp passed away and Big Howard purchased his shares in
 the corporation, thus becoming the sole owner. Cash flowed freely into and back out of Sha
rp-Hughes Tool. Big Howard be
came a first class socialite, and began to spend increasing
 amounts of time and mo
ney on parties, automobile 
racing and travel. One of his amusements was to 
charter a railroad car, fill it with friends, and conduct a rolling party between Texas 
and California. In the spring of 1921, Mrs. Hughes past away and Big Howard died as abruptly as h
is wife, willing his three- fourths of his estate to his only s
on, Howard Robard Hug
hes. Big Howard left an estate appraised for tax purposed at $871,518. As a less attractive part 
of his legacy, he left behind $258,000 in unpaid bills, including $2,758 to Brook Brot
hers Clothiers, $5,502 to Cartier’s in New York, and $3,500 for a g
rand piano. Howard Hughe
s Jr. was born on Christmas Eve, 1906 in Houston, Texa
s. He was commonly k
nown as Sonny, or Little Howard, despite the fact that he was 6’3” by the age of 16. Hughes 
was the student of 7 different schools, of which he graduated from none, excelling only i
n mathematics. As a young man, Hughes had a pe
nchant for all things me
chanical and was known to spend hours tinkering on vari
ous different devices. Little H
oward had only one friend, the son his father’s business partner, Dudley Sharp. At the age o
f 6, Howard Hughes Sr. pre
sented his son with the gift of a w
orkshop, where his son could always be found playing with various bits o
f wires and pieces of metal. At the age of 11, Little 
Howard built his own ham radio, and a
t the age of 13, when he refused the gift of a moto
rcycle, Hughes built one for himself, taking parts from his father’s steam ca
r. As a graduate of Harvard, Big Howard sought h
is son to have the same education,
 and sent his son to boarding school in Massachusetts in fall of 1919. After one
 year had passed it became appa
rent that Sonny was not going to succeed in gr
ooming school. Big Howard traveled across the country to collect his son, and they 
attended a boat race on the way home. After
 losing a bet to his son on the outcome of the race
, Big Howard was forced to grant h
im one wish. That summer, Sonny to
ok flying lessons with v
arious crop dusters against the wishes of both of
 his parents. It was h
ere that Hughes would develop his love of aviation. In 1921, oil drilling and prospecting took
 off in California, and Hughes Sr. relocated 
to Hollywood, and took his son with
 him. After a generous donation to the California Institute of Technology, Sonny was a
ble to attend mathematics and engineering courses. In the fall of 1923, Mrs. Hughes pa
ssed away, and a little over a year later in January of 1924, Big H
oward passed as well. At
 the age of 17, it would seem that Hughes was no
t prepared to enter the world of adulthood, but he would quickly prove otherwise. Sonny was the i
nheritor of 75% of Hughes Tool, of which he would be granted control at 
the age of 21. Eager to take responsibility of his own affairs, Hughes appeared before a 
Texas judge to appeal the legal guidelines set forth in his father’s 
will. Against the advice of Littl
e Howard’s remaining family, the judge granted Hughes his w
ish and a great deal of we
alth and power was put into a young man’s hands. Howard took the 
helm of Hughes Tool at the age of eighteen. Fully aware that he was unable of managing a multi-milli
on dollar firm, he set out to find solid management. 
Hughes found it two months lat
er in Noah Dietrich, an out of work accountant. Before hiring Di
etrich, Hughes insisted that they go on a seven-day train ride. Hughes nev
er mentioned one det
ail about the business over the seven-day period, and announced to Diet
rich upon their return that he was hired. Dietrich managed Hughes’ business affairs
 and Hughes Tool for the next 
thirty years. In 1925, an old friend of Big Howard approached Hughes Jr. to help him f
inance a film project that he was working on. Hughes agreed on the conditi
on that he be allowed on the set of the fi
lm, and be given access 
to everyone working on the film, so that he might learn about the process himself. A
n agreement was made and Howard Hughes
 moved back to Hollywood. Hu
ghes spent all of his time on the set of Swell Hogan, constantl
y questioning the cameramen, insis
ting that he must lo
ok through the lens before each shot was taken. Due mostly to his lack of film knowledge, every sc
ene was shot twice, and production costs quickly doubled to $80,00
0. On one occasion, Hughes was discovered by the night watchman surrounded by neat gr
oups of bits and pieces of a film projector. When a
sked what he was doing, Hughes replied that if he were going to be in the movie business,
 he would need to know how everything worked, down to the
 projectors themselves. By dawn the next day the proje
ctor was back in order, and Hughes was back on the 
set of Swell Hogan. Dollars
 were not of concern to Hughes as the cash flowed freely out of Hughes Tool. In early 1926,
 Hughes bought controlling shares in a chain of 125 theaters, and 70 percent interes
t in Multi-Color, a corpo
ration developing color motion picture film. Swell Hogan was finished by mid-1926, and failed mis
erably in its first screening. Hughes hired the best producers and editor
s in Hollywood, but 
the film could not be salvaged. Hughes placed the fil
m on a shelf and bought his friend a new car. All of Hughes’ ventures were financed by Hughes Tool
, of which Hughes’ remaining family was 25% owners. Distraught with his losses on Swell Hogan, Hug
hes’ family phoned an
d warned him of the dangers of show business. Enraged at himself and his failures, Hughes bought 
the remaining shares of Hughes Too
l at twice their value and turned to successful
 director Lewis Milestone to work on future movie projects. Hughes and Milestone churned ou
t three movies in two years, including Everybody’s
 Acting, The Racket, and Two Arabian Knights, the last of which wo
n an Academy Award for best comedy in 1927. 
Invigorated with his film success, Hughes set out to make a
 film on his own based on a subject that was near t
o his heart: aviation.
 The script for Hell’s Angels came from collaboration between Hughes and two screenwriters, and 
was based on two young British pilots competing for 
the affection of an English soci
ety girl. Written, directed and produced by Hughes, Hell’s Ange
ls was to be the greatest motion picture ever made. Hughes set out to do just that, spending $
553,000 to buy and re-condition 87 WWI fighters and bombers, and another $400
,000 to rent or build airfields in the Los
 Angeles area. Hughes needed a Zeppelin to burn and bought one. Needing an army to fight a
 ground battle, he hired 1,700 extras at $200 a week each. His attention to detail was immacula
te. If the scene called for
 a rainy night, Hughes would require the actors to be on call unt
il it rained at night, and fo
rce them to stay awake all night in the rain. The director, Hughes, w
ould demand re-take after re-take of scenes, often because of hi
s own flaws. Hughes’ attention to detail on the ground was nothing compared
 to that of the air. The film called for airplane battles in cloudy skies, and for once, Hughes quic
kly learned that one can’t buy clouds. He began to 
rise early, or stay up all night to watch for an opportu
ne dawn. If the sun rose over Southern California, 40
 or more airplanes would take off and seek out cloudy skies. When the weather predict
ed clouds miles away, Hughes, the pilot
s, and the fleet of planes w
ould travel in hopes 
of the proper backdrop. Some days, everyone would get paid just t
o stand around. Many months in production, Hell’s Angels seemed to be draw
ing to a close, when Al Jolson’s The Jazz Singer brought an audible revolution t
o Hollywood. Sound became the standard by which pi
ctures were judged and Hughes’ film lacked just one thin
g: sound. The film, at length, edited,
 cut and fitted with titles, was give
n an unannounced preview in a small L.A. theater. The response from the audience was clear; t
he 2 million-dollar silent pic
ture was not good enough. Refusing to quit, Hughes set to work on H
ell’s Angels anew. The flight scenes were easy enough to fix, the sound could be dubbed in
, but the scenes in which the actors were to speak would have to be shot all over again.
 The first task was to write a new screenplay. Hughes insis
ted that in a silent picture actors could get away with mouthing their words, but in a talking
 picture they would have to make sense. He also demanded that the cast be
 completely overhauled out of fear that one indivi
dual might not sound good reading his lines. Production continued through
 the great depression, and in May of 1930 the film was
 completed. Hughes had shot 3,000,000 feet of film, of which only 1% was
 used in the final production, and spent almost 4 million dollars. The film opened to pandemoni
um in Los Angeles. Despite
 terrible reviews, the public went wild for Hell
’s Angels. The film set box
 office records in every theater that it play
ed, and went on to appear on screens for over 20 years throughout the world. I
n the end, it brought in just over eight mil
lion dollars, roughly twice Hughes’s investment. Bored with the movies and having pro
ven himself, it was time for Hughes to move on to something more exciting. In the summer of 1932
, Howard Hughes took a job w
ith American Airlines under the name Charles Howard. His salary was $
250 a week, an excellent wage during the great depression (unless
 you’re already a millionaire
.) Hughes masqueraded in this position for two
 months, carrying baggage, talking to passeng
ers and working as a co-pilot for the commercial airline. In the late summer of 1932, Hughes left
 American Airlines and bought himself a seaplane. He 
hired Glen Odekirk to customize the plane to Hughes’ acute specifi
cations. One day the two argued for three hours about th
e proper placement of th
ree screws in a strip of metal. Hughes wanted to fly cross-countr
y in his seaplane, and 
eventually hired Odekirk as his co-pilot. For the next 18 mont
hs the two would fly around the country, stopping at Hughes’ whims and Howard would often disa
ppear unannounced for da
ys, weeks or months, only to return to Odekirk a
nd his seaplane. On one such disappearance, Hughes ventured to Europe, returning 
with a 320 foot yacht and a Boeing P-12 Army Air Corps pursuit plane. Hughes decided to ra
ce his plane in Miami, and set Odekirk to work, tinkering wit
h the plane in a vain attempt to make the plane faster. Hughes
 was so demanding that he would force Odekirk to make adjustments the mecha
nic knew would not work. In exasperation, Odekirk suggested that Hughes buil
d his own plane from scratch, and after Hughes 
won the race, the billionaire spent the next 
two years building a plane that could win any race. Hughes and Odekirk returned 
to Los Angeles, where Howard
 hired Dick Palmer, a young Cal. Tech. Engineer known for his radical ideas. They set up shop ju
st outside L. A. in a secret hangar
 where the three would work days and nigh
ts on end. The project was called H-1 (Hughes-1) and was th
e most progressive airplane in the world. The plane introduced the retra
ctable landing gear, and pioneered other aeronautic advances such as countersun
k screws and flat rivets to reduce wind resistance. The
 H-1 made its first appearance in September 1935 as Hughes announced that he would break th
e world record for airspeed in his new plane. Hughes insisted that he be the first t
o fly the plane, no matter how dangerous
, and that the first flight be the one for which the record would be tested, even though no one k
new how the plane would perform or if it would fly at al
l. The record to be broken was
 314.32 miles per hour, held by Raymond Delmotte o
f France. The test ca
lled for an average of successive trials, not les
s than four. After five passes, Hughes averaged a speed of 352.39 mile per hour, easily passing De
lmottes’ record. The next morning H
oward Hughes moved from the entertainme
nt pages of the nation’s newspapers to the front
 pages. He had flown faster than any other man, in an 
airplane of his own design, and won the record for the United States. America
 did not know what to do with Howard Hughes, the millionaire playboy who was known to aeron
autical engineers as colleague, amongst pilots, a gritty legend and to Hollywo
od, a film genius. In addition to his m
any achievements, Hughes was known to his friends and hi
s acquaintances as a person of bizarre habi
ts and personal tics. There were numerous causes for Hughes’s increasingly strange beha
vior. From an early age h
e was quite deaf and could not hear conversations around him, yet he told few people 
of his disability. He conducted much of his busine
ss on the telephone because he could hear better using it. As a young man, Hughes evidently contra
cted syphilis, and in his later years he was plagued with neurosyphilis, which is mark
ed by a degeneration of brain cells that can lead to paranoia and other symptoms. He surrounded hi
mself with aides that he trus
ted, a group of seven Mormons which never left Hughes’ side (Howard believed Mormons were more
 trustworthy) and insisted that nay item handed to Hughes be cov
ered by a Kleenex. In addition, as a test pilot Hughes was involved in numerous plane cr
ashes that some researchers presume
 resulted in brain injury. The most serious accident occurred in 1946 when an XF-11 re
connaissance plane he was testing for the Air Force crashed, leaving him with massive injuri
es that caused him pain for the rest of his life. Hughes, who eschewed alcohol and tobacco, was for
ced to take medications to alleviate his pain. An addiction to codeine, a pres
cribed painkiller made from opium, began at this time
 and continued for the remaind
er of his life. Finally, but perhaps most important in understanding Hughes’s in
ability to live a no
rmal life, he became increasingly trapped by what medic
al professionals today understand 
was obsessive-compulsive disorder. Many of Hughes’s biographers believe that his mother
 suffered from the same disease. This mental disorder can cause rituali
stic behavior and unusual habits. For example, Hughes became obsessed with germs and cleanli
ness. In fact, the press reported that Hughes was so fearful of germs that he walk
ed around in Kleenex boxes instead of 
shoes and insisted that any item
 be handed to him covered by a Kleenex. The disease went undiagnosed in his lifetime. In t
he early 1960’s Hughes hired an ex-FBI agent, Robert Maheu, as his right
 hand man. Hughes knew th
at Maheu had been involved in many cloak and d
agger activities with the FBI and CIA, including an assassination attem
pt on Cuba’s Fidel Castro. At the time there were several dozen subpoenas for Hug
hes, including Federal, state and local t
ax evasion charges. In fact, later Hughe
s boasted that he never paid a dollar of income tax in his lifetime. Hughes brought
 Maheu on board to hide him from t
he public eye and to protect against th
ose who wished to bring Hughes into court. In 1966, Maheu moved Hughes to t
he Desert Inn, located in Las Vegas, by train i
n the first hours of the morning. No on
e was allowed in the hotel lobby upon Hughes’ arrival. He
 moved into the penthouse on the fifte
enth floor. Six months had passed and hotel management wante
d Hughes out. He was occupying the floor of the hotel that had the most luxurious suites, and ca
sino profits don’t come form room rent, but from high
 rollers and high rollers demand the best accommodations
. Hughes instructed Mah
eu to inquire about the price of the h
otel, and ownership humoro
usly suggested $14 milli
on, almost twice what the casino was worth. Hughes paid the next day and we
nt into the gambling business. Howard later acquired the Sands, the Fr
ontier, the Castaway, and the tiny Silver Slipper. Hughes told Maheu to 
buy the silver Slipper because its w
ell-lit rotating marquee was an annoyance to Hughes when it
 shined through his window. After spend
ing several years in Las Vegas, the pressure form legal actions beca
me too great. Hughes re-located to the Bahamas on Ma
heu’s suggestion. Eighteen months later, the press r
eported that Hughes had died on an airplane en-route to Texas from heart failure. Hughes had not be
en publicly seen or photographed for 
twenty years.
“Life is in the transitions as much as in the 
terms connected; often, indeed, it seems to be 
there more emphatically, as if our spurts and s
allies forward were the real firing-line 
of the battle, were l
ike the thin line of flame advancing across the dry autumnal field which t
he farmer proceeds to burn.” --William James, “A World of Pure Experience” (1904
) One hundred years after William James’s death, the Houghton Library, drawing upon i
ts vast archive of James material, looks back at transitional moments of hi
s life: his vocational dilemmas, spiritua
l crises, professional paths, and brave philosophical sa
llies forward. In these transitions, we can see the
 “plural facts” of James’s experiences, his publi
c and private battles, and element
s of what he called the “mosaic philosophy” of radical empiricism, prag
matism, and pluralism. William Jam
es was born in New York City in 1842, the first child of Henry a
nd Mary James. He had four siblings: Henry, Jr. (b. 1843), who became an inte
rnationally-lauded writer; Garth Wilkinson (b
. 1845); Robertson (b. 1846); and Alice (b. 1848), noted as a diarist. The James children 
had a peripatetic educatio
n in America and Europe, depending on their father’s quirky educational
 views, sometimes attending schools, sometimes tutored 
at home. The family lived for a time i
n Newport, Rhode Island and
 finally settled in Cambridge, Massachusetts
. When William James died in August 1910, he had attained internation
al prominence as the founder of American psychology an
d as a philosopher. He cou
ld look back on a long and successful career as a Harvard professor. He was a husband a
nd father. These roles were not inevitable. He might have been an artist, like his contemporaries Jo
hn Singer Sargent and William Hunt. He might have practiced medicine; or followed in the
 footsteps of his teacher 
Jeffries Wyman and devoted himself to physiology; or joined the ranks of eminen
t nineteenth-century naturalists, such as Louis Agassiz. When he first to
ok a teaching position at
 Harvard, he had no intention of making college teaching a career, and even whe
n he started down that path, 
he might easily have ended up at
 Johns Hopkins, where he once coveted a position. William J
ames. Notman Studio, photographer. Photograph, undated. *MS Am 2955 (63) P
urchase, Amy Lowell Trust. Louis J. Appell Jr. Fu
nd for British Civilization in the Harvar
d College Library; James Duncan Phillips f
und; and the Charles Warr
en fund. James’s life was punctuated by decisive mome
nts when he might have taken one path or another; when, as he once told 
Alice Howe Gibbens during their protracted courtship, he had to decide on his vo
te for the kind of world he wanted to create for himself, a
nd for the kind of man he wanted to be. Sometimes, those moments did feel like a battle 
– against his father, who opposed his interest in art; against his own self-image as a
 sickly man; against rationalism, determinism, monism;
 against elitism and war-monger
ing. This exhibition reveals som
e of the intellectual tensions that gave rise to his most famous works: The 
Varieties of Religious Experience, Pragmatism, and A Plu
ralistic Universe. In his celebration of nove
lty, his warm tolerance of all manner of spiritual experience, his 
championing of multiple perspect
ives for apprehending reality, James stood apart f
rom many of his contemporaries. He meant his idea
s to offer a process of making sense of experience, of justifying decisions 
that take account of a thin
ker’s desires and needs, and of accounting for one’s own prese
nce in the world. An individual’s philosophy, James wrote, “is itself an intimate part of t
he universe, and may be a part momentous enough to give a different turn to wh
at the other parts signify.” Now, i
n the 21st century, James’s works endure, still v
ital, sympathetic, brilliant, and passionate. An exhibition such as this req
uires a number of people to make it happen. 
Thanks are due first, and for
emost, to the James family, whose extraordinary generosity in donating William James’s libr
ary and papers to Harvard over the years ha
s made not only this exhibition possible, but also ensured that William 
James’s legacy will endure. All material exhibited here, unless otherwise n
oted, is their gift. The William 
James Lecture Fund on Religious Experience at the Harvard Divinity School funded the resear
ch for the exhibition; my particular thanks to David Lamberth. Other Har
vard archives lent material to complement the Houghton holdings: th
anks to Robin McElheny of the Harvard University Archives; Jack 
Eckert of the Center for the History of Medicine, Countway Librar
y, Harvard Medical School; and Connie Rinaldo and Robert Young of the Ernst Mayr Library of the 
Museum of Comparative Z
oology for their assistance. Carie McGinnis, Mary Oey, and Susi Ba
rbarossa of Houghton Li
brary, and their colleagues at the Weissman Preservation Center, prepared and instal
led the items in the cases. For the web exhibition tha
t expands on the items here in the cases, my thanks to Enrique Diaz, Leslie Morris, He
ather Cole, and Taylor Ferracane for their help in br
inging this exhibition to tho
se who cannot travel to Cambridge. Denni
s Marnon facilitated the publication of the ess
ays about this exhibition published in the Harvard Library Bul
letin. Leslie Morris, the curator of the James papers, did much behind
-the-scenes work to help everything com
e together. --Linda Simon, curator; Professor of English, Skidmore College; General Editor 
of William James Studie
s; and author of Genuine Reality: A Life of William James (1998). “Life is in the transi
tions”: William James, 1842-1910, is c
omplemented by “William Jame
s in His Times and Ours: Essays on the Occasion of the Centennial Exhibit
ion at Houghton Library” in the Harvard Library
 Bulletin (Summer 2009). Essays by twelve leading intellectuals and scholars-- Drew Gi
lpin Faust, Susan Gunter, Edward Hoagland, David Lamberth, Louis Menand, Steven Pinker, David S. Re
ynolds, Michael James, Jean Strouse, Colm Tóibin, Gore Vidal, and Cornel West—t
hink about key items in the exhibition from their own perspectives. Copies of the B
ulletin are available for purchase at $15; orders should be addressed to Monique Du
haime, Houghton Library, Harvard University, Cambridg
e MA 02138.
We deem it our duty to call attention to the fact that our educational work will lose its moral foun
dation and the esteem of the natives, if the German government
 is not in a position to p
revent the brutality with which the wi
ves and children of slaughtered Arm
enians are treated in this
 place. The convoys which, on the depa
rture of the exiles from 
their homes in Upper Armenia, con
sisted of 2,000–3,000 persons—men, women and children—arrive here in the south with a remnan
t of only two or three hund
red survivors. The men are killed on the way, the women and ch
ildren, excepting thos
e of unattractive appearance and those who are quite old or quite young, are first abused by Tu
rkish soldiers and officers, and then brought into Turkish or Kurd villages, 
where they have to go over
 to Islam. As regards the remnant of the caravans, every effort is made to reduc
e them by hunger and 
thirst. Even when a river is passed, those who are dying of thirst are not permitted to drink
. As their only food a small quantity of flour is strewn on their hands as a daily ration
; this they greedily lick off, but its only effect is 
to delay death from st
arvation for a little while longer. “Opposite to the
 German Technical School at Aleppo in which we do our work as tea
chers, a remnant of some of these convoys is lying 
in one of the hans; there are about 400 emaciated forms; about 100 b
oys and girls, from five to seven years old, are amo
ng them. Most of them are suffering from typhoid and dysentery. On 
entering the yard one has the impression 
of coming into a lunatic asylum. When food is brou
ght to them, one notices that they have lost the habit of eating. The 
stomach, weakened by months of starvat
ion, has ceased to be able to receive food. Any bread that
 is given to them is laid aside with an air of indif
ference. They just lie there quietly, waiting for death. “How can we te
achers read German f
airy tales with our pupils, or, indeed, the story o
f the Good Samaritan in t
he Bible? How can we a
sk them to decline and conjugate indifferent words, while 
round about in the neighbouring yards the starving brothers and sisters
 of our Armenian pupils are succumbing to a lingering death? In th
ese circumstances our educational wo
rk flies in the face
 of all true morality and becomes a mockery of human fe
eling. “And those poor creatures who in their thousands have been driv
en through the town and the n
eighbouring districts into the desert; nearly all of them are women and children
, and what becomes of them? They are driven 
on from place to place, until the thousands dwindle into 
hundreds and until the hundreds dwindle into insignificant remnants. And t
hese remnants are again driven on until the last survivors have ceased t
o live. Then only the final goal of the migration has been reached. Then the wanderers have arr
ived at ‘the new homes assigned to the Armenians,
’ as the newspapers express it. ‘Ta’alim el aleman’ (‘that is
 the teaching of the G
ermans’) says the simple Tur
k, when asked about the au
thors of these measures. The educated M
uslims are convinced that, though the German people may disapprove of such horrors
, the German Government is taking no steps to prevent them, out of consideration for 
its Turkish allies. Mohammedans of more refined feelings, Turks as well 
as Arabs, shake their heads disapprovingly; they do
 not even conceal thei
r tears when, in the passage of a convoy of deported Armenians through the
 town, they see Turkish soldiers inflicting blows with heavy sticks on wo
men in advanced pregnancy or dying persons who cannot drag themselves any fu
rther. They cannot imagine that the
ir government has or
dered these cruelties, and ascribe all excesses to the guilt of the Germans, who duri
ng the war are held to be the teachers of the Turks
 in all matters. Even the mullahs declare in the mosques that it was not the 
Sublime Porte but the German officers who had ordered the ill-treatment
 and annihilation of the 
Armenians. The things which in this place have been before everybody’s eyes during many month
s, must indeed remain a blot on Germany’s shield of honour in the memory of Oriental nations. Man
y educated persons, who do not wish
 to be obliged to give up their faith in 
the character of the Germans whom they have hitherto respected, 
explain the matter to themselves in the following 
manner: they say, ‘The German nation probably knows nothing of the
 horrible massacres which are on foot at the present time against the native Christians all 
over Turkey. How is it possible otherwise, having regard to the
 veracity of the German nation, that a
rticles should appear in German papers showing complete ignorance of all these events, a
nd only stating that some individual Armenians were deservedly sho
t by martial law as spies and traitors?’ Others say: ‘Perhaps 
the hands of the German government are tied by some convention regulating the li
mits of its competence, or intervention does not appear opportune at the present moment.’
Anthracnose of Shade Trees Sherman V. Thomson/Extension Plant Pathologist S
cott C. Ockey/Plant Disease Diagnostician |Characteristic tissue chlorosis and brown necroti
c lesions along the veins of Sycamore leaves.| Dark colored fungal reproductive
 bodies (Pycnidia) forms on woody tissue of trees infected with Anthracnose causing fungi. Pycn
idia can often be fou
nd on affected twigs and branches. |Mature sycamore trees w
ith severe anthracnose. Trees may be defolia
ted by mid to late summer depending on severity of infection.| Anthr
acnose of Shade Trees Anthracnose is a fungal diseas
e common throughout Utah on Maple, Sycamore, Oak and Ash. Although in most 
years it does not cause significant damage, it can be very destructive during years when 
extended cool wet spring conditions occur. Consecutive years with cond
itions conducive to disease can seriously weaken trees and may cause death if the conditions
 persist and control measures are not implemented. The group 
of fungi that cause anthr
acnose produce spore bearing structu
res called acervuli. The 
acervuli erupt through the plant tissue a
nd are evident as small black dots on twigs. The fungi that cause anthracnose are Kabat
iella apocrypta in Maple, Apiognomonia veneta in Sycamore, A. quercina in Oak and A. errabunda i
n Ash. The first symptoms occur on leaves as small water soaked lesions. They
 are usually found along main veins of leaves, but can also occur b
etween the veins. The spots enlarge and eventually turn tan, reddish-brown or black, 
depending on the species and cultivar of tree affected. Acer
vuli are then produced by the fungus in the necrotic tissue. Sycamore le
aves can become infected as they emerge from buds resulting in blighting of the entire le
af cluster. Infections on twigs and branches initially appear as discolored depressed areas in 
the bark followed by splitting bark. Severe infections 
may even result in death of small branches. Cankers usually develop 
raised margins resulting from the healing process in the tree.
 Sycamore branch infections result in multiple lateral shoots called witches brooms. The f
ungi overwinter in fallen leaves, petioles, twigs or branche
s. Under cool moist spring conditi
ons the fungi mature and produce spores that are dispersed by wind and rain. Spores th
at contact susceptible host tissue infect and grow thr
oughout the adjacent tissue leading t
o the characteristic leaf spot symptoms. Cultural controls are only marginally effective for a
nthracnose and are mostly aimed at sanitation by 
reducing overwintering sites of the fungi. The effectiveness of sanitation 
is often minimal because there are many external sources of spores that ar
e blown into the area
. Cultural controls should be considered if the tree or adjacent 
trees have a history of anthracnose. Recommended cultu
ral controls include: 1. Rake an
d destroy fallen leaves. 2. Pru
ne out and destroy infected twigs and branches. 3. Maintain tree vigor with adequate wate
r and fertilization. 4. Plant resistant cultivars. Sycamore c
ultivars Bloodgood, Columbia and Liberty are reported to be resistant. Check with your local nurse
ry for resistance information regarding other
 tree species. It is usually not necessary to use chemicals to control anthra
cnose because the fungus only infects when wet conditions persist
. Most trees can withstand occasional 
infections without any serious damage. However Chemical controls should be implemented in additio
n to the cultural controls when cool, wet spring 
weather occurs year after year. Chemical applications shou
ld begin at bud swell and continue at 
labeled rates and intervals during wet weather. Table 1 lists registered chemicals for control of 
anthracnose on Maple, Sycamore, Oak and Ash. Be sure to check t
he label for specific information about labeled uses and rates. Table 1 Registered
 products as of Janu
ary 2000. |Banner MA
XX||Maple||5 to 8 fl oz/100gal water||24 hour re-entry| |Sycamore||6 to 8 fl oz/100gal water||24 
hour re-entry| |Oak||16 oz/100gal water||Test on small portion of tree befo
re complete application. 24 hour re-entry.| |Champ Formula 2||Sycamore||1.3 to 2 pin
ts/Acre||24 hour re-entry| |Cleary
's 3336 WP||Maple||12 to 16 oz/100 gal water||12 hour re-entry| |Syc
amore||12 to 16 oz/1
00 gal water||Apply resistance management strategies. Alternate fungicides. 12 hour re
-entry| |Oak||12 to 16 oz/100 gal water||12 hour re-entry| |Ash||12 to 16 oz/100 gal wa
ter||12 hour re-entry| |Daconil Weather Stik||Maple||1.4 p
ints/100 gal water||Daconil 12.5% can be used on Sycamore
 and Ash in home gardens. 48 hour re-entry.| |Fore (80%mancozeb)||Maple||1.5 lb/100 gal water||24 ho
ur re-entry| |Kocide DF||Sycamore||2 t
o 3 lb/Acre||24 hour re-entry| |Nu-Cop 50DF||Sycamore||2 to 3 lb/100 gal water||
24 hour re-entry| |Bayleton||Consult current label for this fungic
ide before use.| Precautionary Statement: Al
l pesticides have benefits and risks, however following
 the label will maximize the benefits and reduce risks. Pay a
ttention to the directions for use and follow precautiona
ry statements. Pesti
cide labels are consi
dered legal documents containing instructions and lim
itations. Inconsistent use of the product or disregar
ding the label is a violation of both federa
l and state laws. The pesticide applicator is legally responsible for proper use. This pu
blication is issued in furtherance of Cooperative Ex
tension work. Acts of May 8 and June 30, 1914, in cooperation with t
he U.S. Department of Agric
ulture, Vice President for Extension an
d Agriculture, Utah State University.
2016 Claim: Wait! What?! Study: There is s
o much global warming that it is slowi
ng the rise of sea levels – ‘Is there anything global warming can’t do? N
ow it seems that there is so much global warming that it is slowing t
he rise of sea levels.’ Climate Ast
rology: ‘Global Warming’ 
commands sea level rise Increases…& sea level rise slowdown: NASA discovers that ‘global warmi
ng’ is slowing and not increasing sea level rise – NASA stu
dy claim: ‘Because the Earth has become more parched, partly because
 humans are pumping out more ground water, the rising oceans are being
 absorbed by lakes, rivers, and underground acquirers, much like a sponge absorbs
 water. An extra 3.2 trillion tons of wat
er has thus been soaked up and stored and is not pouring into the streets of coastal cities.
’ NASA Study Concludes ‘Global Warming’ Is Actually Slowing Sea Level R
ise – A new NASA study concludes global warming increases the amount 
of water stored underground which, in turn, slows the rate of sea level rise. At a 
time when scientists are worried about accelerating sea level rise, NASA scientist John Reage
r and his colleagues found an extra 3,200 gigatons of water was being stored by parched lands
capes from 2002 to 2014, slowing sea level rise by 15 percent. Exc
erpt: Florida State University Geology Professor William Tanner: “Tanner plotted 4000 years of se
a-level data on 5,000 years of climatological data pu
blished in last year’s Encyclopedia o
f Climatology and found some interesting correlations. E
very time the climate warmed a couple of degrees, the sea level 
went down. Every time the climate cooled a
 couple of degrees, the sea level went up. This happened four times, each cycle taking about
 100 years, and spaced about 900 years apart.”
 “He says sea level rise has been about six inches over the past ce
ntury, and he now expects that to slow d
own and even reverse itself if humans continue warming the Earth.”
 “We’ve made the assumption — and it’s logical — that if things get warm, th
e glaciers get warm, the glaciers are going
 to melt,” Tanner said. “But that’s not what these two curves show, no matter how logical it may be.
 Everybody’s been depending on logic without much data.” “Tanner say
s he believes that when the climate warms just a little, it causes more evaporation from th
e oceans and they go down. He sees t
wo separate systems at work — a big one in which the climate gets every w
arm or very cold and the oceans rise or fall dramatically, and a s
mall system in which minor changes in tempe
rature cause the opposite rea
ctions.” “My colleagues here to whom I have presented it in detai
l think it’s reasonable and probably correct.” More on Geologist Dr. William F. Tanner here. – Willi
am F. Tanner (1917-2000) Geologist – Of Tallahassee
, Florida died on April 9, 
2000. Tanner was an ASA fellow and a member of ASA’s Affil. of 
Christian Geologists. A prof. of geology at Florida State U. with emphasis on sedimento
logy, he was born in Milledgev
ille, Georgia in 1917. He holds a B.A. from Baylor University, an M.A. from Texas Technological Co
llege, and a Ph.D. from Oklahoma Un
iversity, all in Geology. He has served as an Instructor at Oklahoma University, a visiting Profess
or of Geology at Florida State University, and Associate Professor and Professor of Geology 
at Florida State University. Since 1974 he has been Regents Professor. He has had g
eological experience in 
much of the U.S., mostly in the Southeast, Southwest, and Rocky Mounta
in areas,- maritime eastern Canada and Canadian Rockies,- Mexico, Panama, Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, 
Chile, Uruguay, various 
parts of Brazil, and Venezuela. His specialties within geology include sedimentology, sedim
ent transport (including beach and river erosion), paleogeography a
nd paleoclimatology, h
istory of the atmosphere and petroleum geology. Dr. Tanner is Editor of 
“Coastal Research, ” Scienc
e Editor for the New Atlas of Florida, and Editor of six volumes on coastal sedimentology. He is
 the author of 275 technical papers. This picture of Boca Raton was in 
that issue of the paper. And this is what
 that beach looks like today. Nothing has changed. 
Background on sea level rise: 1977: ROSS ICE SHELF, Antarctica-A huge portion of the 
Antarctic ice mass appears to be collapsing into the sea, a catastrophe that could raise t
he levels of the oceans by almost 20 feet. “We’re seeing the West ice sheet on its way out,” said 
Richard Cameron of the Nation
al Science Foundation. “It seems to be doi
ng something completely different than the east ice sheet. It h
as nothing to do with a warmer climate, just the dyna
mics of unstable ice.”…”We’re doin
g about the most we can do right now to study the possible collapse of the west ice sheet,” sa
id Dr. Richard Cameron, NSF program ma
nager for glaciology. “It has becom
e an area of concern because we co
uld be on the brink of a rise in sea levels.” SUCH A RAPID rise is not unprecedented. It may have 
caused the Great Deluge de
scribed in the Old Testament. Analysis of late
st sea leel rise claims: Examination of the data from the paper, however, shows the range of p
roxy sea levels is approximately 10 meters, far too large to di
scern the tiny ~1.5 mm/yr sea level rise over the past 150 year
s. The authors instead assume from other published studies of tide gauge measurement
s that the ~1.5 mm/yr sea level rise over the past 150+ years began at that po
int in time. Other papers find sea levels rising only 1.1-1.3 mm/yr over the past 203 years, and 
without acceleration. Regardless, even the 
IPCC concedes that there was no significant anthropogenic inf
luence on climate prior to 1950, thus man is not be
 responsible for sea level rise beginning 150-200 years ago, at the end of t
he Little Ice Age. The sea level rise over the past ~200 ye
ars shows no evidence of acceleration, which is neces
sary to assume a man-made influence. Sea level rise instead decelerated ove
r the 20th century, decelerated
 31% since 2002 and decelerated 44% since 2004 to less than 7 inche
s per century. There is no evidence of an accele
ration of sea level rise, and therefore no evidence of any man-made effect on sea l
evels. Sea level rise is p
rimarily a local phenomenon related to land subsidence, not CO2 levels. Therefore, 
areas with groundwater depletion and land subsidenc
e have much higher rates of relativ
e sea level rise, but this has 
absolutely nothing to do with man-made CO2.
How to become a better global citizen We all want to m
ake the world a better place for ourselves
 and future generations. A happier, healthier and equal w
orld is a good thing 
for all. Plus, the benefits of doing good things sp
eak for themselves. According to studies, doing good for others 
can improve life satisfaction, happiness levels and mental and physical health. One study found
 that adults who volunteered about four hours a week significantly decreased their chances
 of developing high blood pressure. So, how can we extend this feel good fac
tor on a global scale? How can we become a better global citizen? A global citizen is s
omeone who has an awareness of the world and how human actions can 
impact on it. They’re curious about the environment, natur
e, human cultures, geology and economics, and how they all conn
ect with each other. They 
also have a desire to positively contribute to communities to im
prove life for others. What is a global citizen? A global citizen is respectful of cultural 
diversity and human rights. They’re empathetic to causes and suffering around the world 
and feel responsible for their impact on it and making change. They see themselv
es as a citizen of the world, rather tha
n a single country. They desire equality for all a
nd consciously make fair choices and decisions. Read on to learn about the steps you can take t
o become a better global citizen. Make greener choices R
ecycling, reducing waste, energy saving, and water conse
rvation all lessen the impact on the environment. Save energy by turning off lights, unplugging 
appliances when not in use and buying appliances and lights with
 good energy ratings and efficiency. Conserve water by 
installing a rainwater tank, water efficient shower heads and appliances.
 Reduce waste by using reusable containers, 
water and coffee cups. Avoid using plastic bags, straws and disposable items. Upcycle wh
ere possible or buy second ha
nd and create a compost heap for scraps. Learn a new language Being able 
to speak another language is useful and reward
ing in so many ways. But, when it comes to becoming a better global citizen, 
it’s one of the best. Learning a new languag
e means that you gain an appreciation and insight into other cultures that you ma
y previously not have had. You become more aware of culture differences, why they 
exist and the importance of respecting them. According to researchers, Hanh Thi Nguy
en and Guy Kellogg, when students learn anoth
er language, they develop ne
w ways of understanding culture and
 ways of thinking and behaving. Students can criti
cally think about stereotypes
 of different cultures re
lated to food, appearance and conversatio
n styles. Volunteer to help out a local charity or one that
 works with overseas organisations. If you’re keen to take it a step further, hop on a 
plane and spend some time volunteering ove
rseas. Seeing first-hand how your voluntary efforts are making a difference to others
 is a great feeling, as is connecting with those you’re
 helping. It’s also a good way of educating yourself on the issues tha
t other countries may 
be facing. Organisations such as GVI andProjects Abroad organize volunteer projec
ts in countries such as Africa, Latin America, Asia, Europe and A
ustralasia. Volunteers have the opportunity to help out in conservation, educatio
n, and community projects. Travel as much as possible Travelling is one of the best ways
 to explore the globe, understand and experience different cultures and co
untry challenges first hand, as well as meet new friends
. Gaining a global perspective can help us reflect and appreci
ate what we have, and increased empathy for others is a key characte
ristic in becoming a better global citizen. Before travelling, think about what you’re r
eally passionate about doing or discovering. Think local cuisine, local temples 
or going off the beaten track. Research
 if you can and connect with locals who can help. Sharing a common passion is a good way to see co
mmonalities from a new viewpoint. Education is key Educating yourself about what’s going on in the 
world is a great way to become a better global citizen. With a multitude of sources available at
 our fingertips, learning is only ever a click away. Learn about different 
cultures online. Read blogs and news sites about different
 country’s politics, current affairs and cultur
es, and research local cultural 
community events or celebrations which you can attend. You could als
o use social media and communication to connect and develop friendships with 
people all over the world, so why not go ahead and give it a go?
10 REASONS SOME KIDS AR
EN’T READY FOR KINDERGARTEN - He Has a Late Birthday – Depending on when your
 child’s birthday is and where it falls in relation to the cu
t-off date for kindergarten enrollment in your school district, yo
ur child could potentially be one of the youngest members of his class and, as 
such, not quite ready fo
r the rigors of school. Social readiness is also an important factor in 
determining kindergarten readiness. - She Didn’t Go to Preschool – Kindergarten has ch
anged quite dramatically over the years, and is no longer dedicated to singing songs or taking
 naps. These days letter and color recognition, basic countin
g and even early mathematics and pre-reading 
skills are required to be considered ready for kindergarten. If your child didn’
t attend preschool, she may not be quite ready for the demanding atmosphere of kindergarten. - He
’s Developmentally Differ
ent – Some developmental differences 
begin to present themselves around the time a child would begin kindergarten, which is one 
of the reasons why some parents are surprised to find that their
 little one isn’t quite ready. If you suspect 
that your child is developmentally differen
t, discussing your c
oncerns with his doctor can help you determine what your next step should be. - She Was Born Pr
ematurely – Premature babies can lag a bit behind their p
eers developmentally, e
ven as late as kindergarten. According to a study by the University of Nottin
gham published in the New England Journal of Medicine, up to 52% of prematurely born children exper
ienced developmental delays at age two, with many premat
urity-related problems not showing up
 until the age of five. - He Struggles With Behavioral
 Problems – Kids who have difficulty controlling their behavior
 may struggle to adhere to the rules of a kindergarten classroom, especially if he has little experi
ence with a classroom setting. Your
 child’s behavioral d
ifferences can affect his kindergarten readiness and may require a bit of special attention. -
 She Has a Physical Disability – Public sc
hools are required by Federal law to make allowances for children with speci
al needs, but a physically disabled child may simply not be ready for the relatively demanding 
schedule of kindergarten when ot
her children her age a
re starting school. - He Has Speech Problems – One of the areas in which many ki
ndergarten screening tests look for kindergarten readiness is in regards to verbal skills and spee
ch ability. A child who struggle
s to speak, isn’t verbal at all or has a severe speech impediment m
ay require a bit of extra ti
me before he starts school with his peers. - Sh
e Isn’t Fully Potty Trained – Legally, public school districts are not allowed to turn away a stud
ent based on their lack of potty
 training. Still, the humiliation 
that can accompany regular accidents in front of her cl
assmates may keep your child from thriving. If she’s not potty trained and ki
ndergarten enrollment is approaching, you may n
eed to consult with a pediatrician for advice. - He Can’t Focus 
On a Given Task – Some kids simply can’t focus on a task they’ve be
en given. Whether it’s due to attention deficit disorder or developmental differences
, a child who isn’t ab
le to focus at all may req
uire special attention in order to thrive in 
kindergarten. - She Suffers From Severe Separation Anxiety – Most kids who suffer fro
m separation anxiety during the first few days of kindergarten lear
n to overcome it. An incapability to shake separation anxiety or severe emotional distre
ss can point to more complicated emot
ional differences, however, which may need to be evaluated by a medical professional befor
e she attends school. It’s important to remember that at 
such a young age, most children are devel
oping at their own pace and may not reach milestones at the same time as 
their peers. Delayed kindergarten readiness
 isn’t always an indicato
r of developmental differences that will set your child ap
art throughout his academic
 career. Remember how important it is to be pat
ient with your child and help him reach
 developmental milestones at his own pace.
The disease where the blood vessels in the brain 
swell up is known as aneurysm. This is nothing but swelling up of the wall of the affected blood 
vessel and is usually caused by a weak spot in the vessel that goes out of
 shape with the constant pressure
 exerted by the pumping of blood. Usua
lly an aneurysm develops at a region where the blood vessel tends to branch out into two
 because this region is 
particularly vulnerable. Although an a
neurysm can develop anywhere in the body, the 
most common place of development is the blood vessels of the brain or the he
art. When the blood vessel
s in the brain swell up abnormally, it is known as cerebral
 aneurysm. This disease is quite fatal as death can occur i
n minutes of affected blood 
vessel rupturing. Usually when cerebral aneurysm first occurs, it is shaped like a 
small grape that is attached to the blood vessel by means of a stalk. The small bulg
e is filled with blood and that is why it is often referred to as berry or saccular aneurysm. 
Sometimes, the swelling in the blood vessel in the 
brain can be multiple and they all occur together in a cluster. Some symptoms of brain 
aneurysm include severe headache that comes on suddenly and fast, pain in the n
eck accompanied by stiffness, paralys
is, seizures, problems with the vision and having difficulty talking. It has been noticed that brai
n aneurysm is more common in the elderly. Some causes of cerebral aneurysm are as 
follows: - Weak blood vessel which could be a b
irth defect - High blood pressure, also known as hypertension that is pr
evalent for years leading
 to damage of the blood vessels. - Fatty deposits or plaque formatio
n on the walls of the blood ves
sel leading them to become weak. This condition is known as arthroscl
erosis. - Polycystic kidney disease can lead to brain aneurysm. - Inheriting certain
 diseases that cause the blood vessels to become weak. Cerebral aneurys
m can lead to a lot of complications like bleeding in the brain tissue 
surrounding the ruptured blood vessel, water in the brain (hydrocephalus), paralysis, 
stroke, epilepsy and of course, sudden death. Usually when a person is detect
ed with cerebral aneurysm, the doc
tor will try to surgically repair the damage. In addition, the person will be 
advised bed rest and p
ut on medication to help pain and the seizures. Unfortunately more than half the people die the f
irst day of the cerebral aneurysm or within t
he next three months. The other half invariably have to
 live the rest of their lives with disabilities. More Art
icles :
A common component o
f the property buying process in which a potential buyer (for a fee) rese
rves the right to buy the property for a specific period of time. A reservation is a l
egal agreement between a buyer and seller th
at creates a contract t
o purchase land or propert
y. It is an option that a
llows the buyer to reserve the right to buy a piece of land or property at a
n agreed price within an agreed time frame, typically around 28 days. The reservation fee is pa
id upfront, securing the fut
ure purchase at a fixed price. D
uring this period, the buyer can conduct 
further investigations on the property, arrange financing options, and prepare for comple
tion. If completion does not happen within the given timeframe, the reservation a
nd any deposit paid by the buyer will be forfeited. Once comp
letion has taken place
, ownership of the land or property will transfer to th
e purchaser, and they will become responsible 
for all associated costs and responsibilities r
elated to owning it. The process for reserving a proper
ty for potential buyers involves the following: D
uring the reservation period, the buyer conducts due diligence and obtai
ns financing, and can proceed with the purchase by completing le
gal and financial req
uirements. If they do not move, the reservation fee 
may be forfeited or refunded according to
 the terms of the reservation agreement. Upon completion of the purcha
se, the property is transferred to the buyer. Reserving a pro
perty during the buying process can serve several purposes. It can secure the right to purchase, pro
vide time for due diligence, ensure property availability, facilitate planning a
nd decision-making, create a sense of commitment between the parties, and lock in price or terms.
 This can be useful in competitive markets where prope
rties are in high demand and prevent other potential buyers from purch
asing the property during the reservation period. The fee associated with r
eserving a property in the context of real estate is typically referred to as a "reservation fee
" or "booking fee." This fee is paid by the potential buyer to the seller or developer 
as a form of consideration fo
r securing the right to purchase the property 
during the reservation period. The amount of the reserva
tion fee can vary depending on factors, such as the location, market conditions
, and the value of the property. In some cases, the re
servation fee may be a fixed amount agreed upon between the parties, 
while in other cases, it may be a percentage of the proper
ty's purchase price. It's essent
ial to note that the reservation fee is typically non-refundable.
 If the potential buyer de
cides not to proceed with the purchase withi
n the reservation period, the fee may be forfeited to the seller or deve
loper. Reserving a property in the context of real estate typically involves a potential b
uyer paying a fee to the seller or developer in 
exchange for the exclusive right to purchase the property f
or a specific period. Th
is reservation period is agreed upon in 
a contract between the parties, which is a legally binding contract
. When a potential buy
er reserves a property, it typically means t
hat the seller or developer agrees not to sell the property to any o
ther buyer during the reservation period
. This gives the potential buyer the 
right to purchase the property during the reserved period without the risk of los
ing the property to other buyers. The reservation agreement typically outlines the terms and con
ditions of the reservation, including the duration of the reservation period, the amount
 and nature of the reservation fee, and
 any other terms or requirements the parties have agree
d upon. Making a reservation can be smart for buyers interes
ted in purchasing property in a competitive market. It allows them to secure t
he property they want,
 negotiate a better price, and reduce their financial ris
k. However, buyers need to do their due dili
gence before making a
 reservation to ensure that they are making an informed dec
ision and that the property meets thei
r needs and expectations.
The PHA emphasises the importance of 
keeping warm in order to st
ay healthy. Evidence suggests that long
 periods of extremely low temperatures can lead to an increased risk of adverse heal
th effects such as increased respiratory disease, heart attacks and stroke. The elderly are p
articularly vulnerable. Excessive cold
 can also cause a rise in blood pressu
re, lowered resistance to infections and worsening of symptoms of rh
eumatoid arthritis. So the public are being advised to take some basic steps to look after themselve
s and their elderly relative
s and neighbours over the coming days. This advice is a
s follows: - Wear several thin layers of clothing as the
y will keep you warmer than one thick layer. - When inside keeping moving and try not to 
sit still for more than one hour at a time as activity gene
rates body heat. - Eat well with frequent warm healthy meals an
d drinks – but avoid alcoholic drink as this can lower body temperature. Heati
ng your home - When heating your home ensure open fires have guards in front of them, air 
vents are not blocked and additional heating appliances being used have been recently
 serviced and well maintained in view of the risks of carbon monoxide poisoning (for further ad
vice see HSENI link below). When outside in cold weather - Only g
o outside into the cold if absolutely necessary and if yo
u have to venture outside wear wa
rm gloves, a hat and footwear with non-slip soles
. - Take care on icy footpaths and cons
ider using a walking stick to ensure you kee
p your balance. Finally the PHA adv
ises that people check on their vulnerable and elderly neighbours who may not 
be able to get to shops to make sure they have everything they 
need to keep warm and keep healthy. Indeed, the Board and A
gency remain indebted to the considerable and ongoing effort
 of people across the community who have a voluntary caring responsibility to others such
 as elderly dependent relatives, friends or neighbours. This effort is being discharged by coun
tless people and is much valued for its ability 
to assist the wider health and social services at the present time. Useful
 web links Getting access to
 GPs and hospitals For 
anyone who takes ill or needs to see a doctor the position is as follows: GP practices 
throughout Northern Ireland remain open and continue to 
provide their normal daytime servi
ces. People should contact their practice in the normal manner for medical advice or for
 obtaining a prescription. However
, they should also bear in mind that thei
r GP services are very busy and if 
they can wait, they should do so. Similarly, the best treatment for colds and the flu is to stay
 at home, rest, drink plenty of fluids and use over-the-counter remedies to e
ase symptoms. GP out-of-hours pr
oviders are coping well at a time of
 year when there is s
easonally a high demand for services, with an increa
se in calls from patients. People should nevertheless be patient, and should bear in mind that t
he GP out-of-hours service is for urgent calls that cannot wa
it until their own GP practice is next open. It is important that pa
tients always remember to phone their GP out-of-hours service first, before at
tending, as this can o
ften assist in avoiding an
 unnecessary journey. The aim is to ensu
re patients’ concerns are dealt with in the most appropriate way
. For members of the public wishing to acces
s GP out-of-hours services, the p
hone number will be a
vailable on the answering machine of their GP practice, in the telephone directory or
 on the website at www.gpoutofhours.hscni.net Hospital services 
are continuing to ope
rate largely as normal, and people should c
ontinue to attend for appointments unless they have been formally advise
d by their hospital of a postponement. If anyo
ne is unable to keep an appointment owing to the weath
er, it will be enormously helpful if they can notify the hospital in advance. More widel
y, people should remember not to attend a hospital accident and emer
gency department for 
a condition that is not urgent, as the prime function of the
se centres is to cater for people who are seriously ill an
d require immediate medical assistance. The Board and the Public Health Agency also wish
 to commend and thank the many h
ealth and social care
 staff who have been able to reach their work despite the adverse weathe
r and who are contributing huge
ly to maintaining a wide range of services for the 
community. In particular, the
y are very grateful to the emergency
 services for helping a number of care staff to reach patients in snow-a
ffected and isolated areas.
CURATOR’S CHOICE #6: SANDRA TUPPEN FROM THE BRITISH LIBRARY Sandra Tuppen, curator of M
usic Manuscripts at the British Library, explores some highlights fr
om their digitised collection of music m
anuscripts, including those penned by t
he hand of Haydn, Handel, Purcell
, and a very messy Beethoven. Ever since the earliest methods of notating music were devised, comp
osers and scribes have written out music by hand – o
n vellum in the medieval period and subseque
ntly on paper. (Only now is
 this beginning to change, with the advent of computer programs for mus
ic notation.) Even after the perf
ecting of music printing techniques in the 16th century, when music was printed using moveable type 
and later by engraving, and the burgeoning of a trade 
in music publishing, much music continued to be written ou
t by hand and circulated in manuscript. Printing music was expensive, time-consuming 
and complex; copying out music by hand could be done relatively cheaply and qu
ickly, especially when a few copies only of a particular composition w
ere needed. In the 17th and 18th centuries, music was written o
ut in manuscript for several purposes. These included th
e creation of ‘master copies’ from which further handwritten co
pies could be made when required, the provision of musicians’ parts for use in pe
rformance and the commercial and non
-commercial dissemination of musica
l works. Many publishers of printed music
 also sold manuscript music. With musical genres for which the market in scores 
was likely to be small (o
pera, for example), producing manuscripts in small quantities was more cost-effective than
 setting up a print run. The British Li
brary holds one of the finest collections of printed and
 manuscript music in the world. It encompasses music dating from 
the middle ages to the present and includes a large number of autograph music manuscripts
 (scores written out by the composers thems
elves). Among the autographs are scores of the great composers of the 17th to the 19th centur
ies, from Purcell, Bach and Handel to Beethoven and Schubert, and large collections of score
s and other documents of 20th-century Britis
h composers, including Elgar, Delius, 
Britten, Tippett and Maxwe
ll Davies. As is the c
ase with ordinary handwriting,
 there is much that is distinctive about the way indi
vidual composers and scribes write music down, even though the
y all follow the same basic conventions for notat
ing music. The ‘musical hand’ of an individual composer or scribe
 is often so distincti
ve that elements of it can be studied and, once ide
ntified as the ‘fingerprint’ of that particular individua
l, used to help authenticate other manuscript sources t
hat are believed to have originated with the same individual. It can be used 
to identify anonymous pieces
 of music and correct earlier misattributions. Manuscript music comes in a variety
 of formats, depending on its intended use. Autograph music manuscripts can provide a tantal
ising glimpse of the composer a
t work and shed light on the creative process. The two examples above – both from 18
th-century symphonies – are ‘fair copy’ manuscripts, in othe
r words they are manuscripts written out by the composers themselves, bu
t in a final, ‘tidy’ version suitable for use by the scribe, who would have had to copy ou
t the individual parts needed by each of the players. Haydn probably completed his score shortl
y before the first performance of the symphony in 1
791, in London. He made a mistak
e when writing the names of the instrumen
ts down the side, initially forgetting to include the oboes, but it is otherwise a model of clar
ity. The symphony of Sir William Herschel – astronomer and composer – is similarly clear, 
unlike the following example: Here, Beeth
oven – never a neat writer at the best 
of times – was sketching out ideas for his string quartet in one of the notebooks he
 carried around with him. He jotted down his ideas wheneve
r he had an inspiration. Falling somewhere between Bee
thoven’s rough sketch
 and Herschel and Haydn’s fair copies in the creative process is the ‘working manuscript’, show
ing the composer still honing and finalising the work. In the following manuscript of music by Tele
mann, the composer has scratched out and altered some of the notes as well as removing one bar
 completely. As well as its great collection of autograph manuscripts, the British Library hold
s many scribal (i.e. copyists’) scores. Music copyists ofte
n worked closely with the composer, who would supervise their wor
k, check it for errors and sometimes make corrections. The music of Handel
 takes a central place in the British Library’s c
ollections, most notably in the Roya
l Music Library, the music collection of successive generations of the 
royal family, which was presented to 
the nation by Her Majest
y the Queen in 1957. The collection includes 97 autograph manuscripts of Handel
’s music, together with many of the manuscripts compiled by Handel’s trusted scribes. The
se scores are mostly ‘file copies’, rather than material
 that would have been used in performance. Much music, of course, is written out for very practical 
reasons – for use by professional or ama
teur musicians. Manuscript sources can not only reveal much
 about the music, but als
o provide evidence about the context in which it was heard. This little oblo
ng manuscript is just the kind of book that an amateur musician would have carried ar
ound in his pocket and pul
led out to play from, perhaps at the request of his friends. In fact it belon
ged to and was compiled by a
 17th-century coal merchant, Thomas Britton, who loved music and s
et up one of the first series of concerts in England, in a narrow room above his shop in Clerkenwell
, lit, according to his neighbour, by a window ‘no bigger than the bung-hole of a
 cask’. This music is intended for the recorder (
known as the flute in the 17th century). As is the case today, much musi
c was intended for use by amateur musicians at home. Compilati
on albums – both printed and manuscript – containing the most popular pieces of the day 
were a feature in many middle- and upper-clas
s households. This drinking song for three voices, ‘Fill the bowl
e with Rosie Wine’, composed and in the hand of the 17th-century musician H
enry Bowman, appears in a miscellaneous album o
f pieces compiled by Bo
wman, and owned by Katherine Se
dley, daughter of Sir Charles Sedley, Baronet. Music was also performed in educationa
l establishments. Edward Lowe, Oxford Professor of
 Music from the 1660s to early 168
0s, organised weekly performances at th
e Music School and collected and c
opied much music for use in Oxford, inclu
ding this song by Henry Lawes, ‘Come from t
he dungeon to the throne’, sung in th
e play The Royal Slave by William Cart
wright. Cartwright’s play was performed by students of Christ Church, Oxford for Charles I in 
the 1630s. Much music was written for use in a liturgical setting, and th
e British Library’s 17th- and 18th-century music collections are rich in scores of an
thems, service music and other religious pieces, particular from the English sacred establishm
ents. The following anthem by the all-but-forgotten Jame
s Nares sets words from 
Psalm 125 and comes from a manuscript of anthems composed by Nares for use in the Chapel Roy
al. He has annotated the score as follows: The Wor
ds chose by Dr. Allen, Sub-Dean of his Majesty’s Chapel Royal
, desiring they might be set, in th
e Compass of five Minutes
. 1757. Geo: 2d: desiring short Anthems, becaus
e he never sat during ye anthem, & began to be fategued with standing long as usual. The other m
usical genre common in Engl
and in the 17th and 18th centuries was the ‘occasional piece’ – a composition written to mark
 a special occasion, such as a royal
 visit, birthday or saint’s day. Many of these pieces took the form of an ode. John Eccles wro
te such a work, ‘Inspire us, genius of
 the day’, in 1702-3, seemingly for William III’s birthday. After the death of the
 King, it was re-purposed for the birthday of Queen Anne. These images 
are just a small selection of those made for the RISM Music Manuscripts Project (www.rism.o
rg.uk) – which aims to document all music manuscripts from 1600 
to 1800 preserved in UK libraries and archives – and which are now made available on
 Wikimedia Commons. Along with the images ar
e links to descriptions of each manuscript in the British L
ibrary catalogue and RISM database. While this gallery provides examples of a wide range of 
composers’ and scribes’ handwriting, these are single photographs, not complete manus
cripts. The Library is now moving on to digitise entire music manuscripts, and you can find most of
 those that have been completed at www.
bl.uk/manuscripts (just search for ‘music’). We have also digitised about 320 of 
our 16th-century printed mus
ic sources, in a partnership wi
th Royal Holloway, University of London, and 
these can be viewed at www.earlymusiconline.or
g. In the coming year, we will be working to digitise Handel’s autograph manuscripts – a 
large undertaking – and will conti
nue to make as much material as possible freely 
available. I should like to acknowledge the assistance of Andrew Gray in making 
the ‘Composers and Scribes’ collection available on Wikimedia while he was working as Wikipedian
 in Residence at the British Library. Dr Sandra Tuppen is Curator of Music Manuscripts at the Bri
tish Library. Visit the British Library’s collection of digitised music m
anuscripts on Wikimedia Commons to explore the full set of more th
an 400 images. This post is part of our Curator’s Choice series, a monthly fea
ture consisting of a guest article from a curator about a work or g
roup of works in one of their “open” digital collections.
 The series is undertaken in partnership with OpenGLAM and made possibl
e through funding from the European Union’s DM2E project.
Let these pictures guide you through the journey that a single nut takes from the l
ush landscapes of Northern NSW and South East Queensland to a table
 near you. Macadamias can be found all over ou
r country, but most production is concentrated in the beautiful,
 lush regions of South Ea
st Queensland and Northern NS
W. Did you know that macadamia
 nuts start out as flowers
? The draping strands of flowers on a macadamia tree are called racemes. There ar
e around 100 individual flowers in each raceme, but usually only around five of those will turn 
into nuts. Macadamia orchards are full of these white or pale pink flowers each year duri
ng spring. Growers encourage both native Aust
ralian bees and European ones by placing hives around their farms. Some consider the sm
all native bees to be t
he best pollinators of the delicate flowers. The nuts develop throughout
 the summer, encased in their hard shell with an outer green husk. Nuts that aren’t yet
 fully grown are called nutlets. Although the timing for each season can vary depending on t
he weather conditions, macadamias are usually ready for harvest in March. Fully 
grown nuts drop to the ground when they are ready for harvest. So growers actually gather them
 from the ground rather than picking them off the trees. Harvesting used to be do
ne by hand, but these days farmers use tractors and finger w
heels to collect the nuts while still in their husks. Nuts
 are usually removed from their husk on the farm, revealing the h
ard, brown shell beneath. T
he dehusked macadamias are delivered to processors
 in their shells where they are weighed, graded and cracked. The very har
d shells are as useful as the nut is delicious. They can be used to make everythin
g from homewares to pool filters and are even used as a renewable energy source. No p
art of the macadamia is wasted. Most people buy macadamias already cracked and re
ady to eat. You can purchase macadamia
s in their shells but, because they are so hard, the nuts usually require a
 specialist nut cracker to open them. The kernels have a distinctive, buttery crunc
h that makes a moreish snack and provides rich nutty flavour and unique texture to bo
th savoury and sweet d
ishes. They can also be transformed into macadamia milk, macadamia butter and a n
umber of other delicious dairy alternative
s. Back on the farm, one season flows into the next. After the harvest, growers have time for 
a quick cuppa, before they pr
epare the orchard for next year’s crop.
Okra, also known as gumbo, is a vegetable used in va
rious african dishes. The origin of this pod vegetable is unknown, but some
 researches place the first cultivation of okra in Ethiopia and ancient Egyp
t. Next to the use of okra as an african food it’s also used in many caribean, south-american and
 asian dishes. They can be used fried, cooked or even raw in
 many different dishes and
 salads. When cooked the seed pods get their famous slimeness or ‘go
o’ fiber. This might not look really taste, but the taste of it is really
 delicious and gives it the real afr
ican flavour. the plant of the Okra grows in warm climates and is availab
le fresh there all year round. In northern countries they are mostly
 available in summer or 
in the frozen section of your Asian, African or Carib
ean convenience store all year round.
 Okra can be found in different
 sizes and shapes and depending on a certain african dish one prefers a certain si
ze. the vegetable can be used 
in stews, soups or as a fried or cooked vegetable. since Gumbo is used all over the African cont
inent check out the different dishe
s and recipes for this delicious african pod vegetable.
Religiously devout atheist, if radioactive dating cold that makes any d
ifference to those around researchers asked participants for their. Radiometric da
ting definition: nouna method for determini
ng the age of an object based on the concentration of a particular
 radioactive isotope contained within. Definition of radioac
tive dating – our online dictionary has radioactive dating infor
mation from uxl complete life s
cience resource dictionary
 encyclopediacom: english, psychology and medical dictionaries. Radioactive
 dating of the 600-meter-thick 
halite deposits, and of the sediments
 above and below them, indicates that the salty strata. • radioactive dating (noun) the noun r
adioactive dating has 1 sense: 1 measurement of the amount of radioactive material 
(usually carbon 14) that an object contains can be used to estimate the age of the object 
familiarity information: rad
ioactive dating used as a noun is very rare. Radiocarbon dating (also ref
erred to as carbon dating or carbon-14 dating) is a method 
for determining the age of an object
 containing organic material by using t
he properties of radiocarbon (14 c), a radioactive isotope of carbon. Radioactive da
ting shows that the mites were entombed roughly between 3,2
00 and 800 years ago, polyak note
s. Radioactive dating was not possible until 1896, when the radioactive properties of uranium (
a radioactive metallic element) were discovered by fre
nch physicist (a person specializing in the study o
f energy and matter), antoine
 henri becquerel (1852–1908. Radioactive dating definition a proce
ss for determining the 
age of an object by measuring the amount of a given radioactive material it contains if one know
s how much of this radioactive material was present initially in the object (by d
etermining how much of the 
material has decayed), an
d one knows the half-life of th
e material, one can deduce. Radioactive dating the 
determination of the age of an a
rtifact, bone, rock, etc based on the known
 rates of decay of radioactive isotopes of various elements. «r
adioactive dating» radiometric d
ating is a technique used to date materials such as rocks or carbon, usually
 based on a comparison between the o
bserved abundance of a. Ra
dioactive dating definition, meaning, english dictionary, synonym, see
 also 'radioactive decay',radioactive
 series',radioactive tracer',
radioactive waste', reverso dictionary, english definition, english vocabulary. Radio
active definition is — of, caused by, or exhibiting radioactivity of,
 caused by, or exhibiting radioacti
vity how to use radioactive in a sentence. Radi
oactive dating n measurement of the amount of radioactive material (usually carb
on 14) that an object contains ca
n be used to estimate the age of the object. But the radioactive atoms used in dating techn
iques have been subjected to heat a half-life is more easy 
to define than some point at which almost all of the. Radiometric dati
ng or radioactive dating is a technique used to date materials such as rocks or carbon, in which
 trace radioactive impurities were selectiv
ely. Definition of radioactive dating in the definitionsnet dictionary meaning of radioact
ive dating what does radioact
ive dating mean information and translations of radioactive dat
ing in the most comprehensive dictionary definitions resource o
n. Radioactive dating has given new time determinations for human ancest
ors and evolution in the dim anthropological past scien
ce past: from the issue of march 9, 1963 scientists used new radioa
ctive dating techniques to determine both the date of the impact and that of dinosaurs' extincti
on. Radiometric dating 1 any method of determin
ing the age of earth materials or objects of organic origin
 based on measurement of either short-lived radioactive elements or the 
amount of a long-lived radioactive
 element plus its decay product. Radioactive dating
 of certain isotopes in the rock indicates that it formed bene
ath the martian crust some 4 search
ing for life in a martian meteorite the new finding, based on a highly accurate method for the 
radioactive dating of pri
mitive meteorites, pinpoints one of the earliest and most important events in the solar system-the
 time at which frozen.
Learn something new every day More Info... by email Deadweight l
osses have to do with the difference between gains made by one p
arty, in comparison to
 losses sustained by a second party, when a particular course of action is taken. The c
oncept of a deadweight loss can be applied to business dealings between individuals, the relations
hip between a producer and consumers who buy the busines
s’s products, or even the relationship between a government and the citizens residing with 
the government’s jurisdiction. In all its incarnations, the id
ea of assessing this type of loss is 
to determine if the gains achieved are worth the degree of loss that is incurred. Wh
en it comes to busines
s dealings between individuals, a deadweight loss can be something as simple as a landlord inc
reasing the monthly rent, but n
ot making any changes to the amenities associated with the lease. In this scenario, th
e landlord receives a benefit, in the form of the additional revenue.
 The tenant sustains a loss, in that no additional services are extended, and it is necessar
y to reduce spending in other areas of the household budget in
 order to honor the increased rent payment. With businesses, the same general approach 
to a deadweight loss takes place when the company
 chooses to increase the 
cost of the items it produces. While the company anticipates inc
reased revenues, consumers are looking at paying more without receiving any additio
nal benefit from the purchases. Assessing deadwei
ght loss in this scenario is
 very important, since if the increase is enough to alienate a significan
t number of consumers, rev
enues will decrease in spite of the price increase per unit sold. Underst
anding deadweight loss is also imp
ortant for governments. For example
, a government that is considering a change to current trade
 restrictions will want to consider the outcome of ti
ghtening those restrictions. This means determin
ing if the change will help to increase
 internal productivity within the nation, or will simply cau
se a decrease in the standard of living for a significant number of citizens. The answer 
to those questions can help the government d
etermine if the benefits derived from the action will be sufficient to make the los
ses incurred by private citizens wort
hwhile, in terms of improving economic conditions for the 
majority of the populace. At its core, assessing the amount of deadweight loss is ab
out making responsible decisions that produce positive outcomes with a min
imum of negative impact. Using this concept can often help individuals, businesses, a
nd even governments avoid taking some sort of action 
that seems a good idea on the surface, but ultimately creates more problems 
than it solves. When utilized properly, it is p
ossible to avoid situations of net social loss, excess burden on key sectors of the populat
ion, and prevent companies in engaging in allocative inefficiency, due
 to the irresponsible use of limited resources.
In Tonawanda, New York, the income tax is a tax imposed on money received (income) during a certa
in set time period. Under federal law, and the laws of most state
s, income from any source can be taxed. The federa
l government has the constitutional power to tax income thanks to 
the 16th Amendment, which was enacted in 1916. Before that time, the U.S. Supreme Court 
had repeatedly declared the fed
eral income tax unconstitutional, but individual states, including N
ew York were free to impose an income tax if they saw fit. While the federal government levi
es an income tax aga
inst every person and corporation in the U.S., th
e income taxes imposed by the states vary widely. Some s
tates have relatively high income taxes, and a few have 
none at all. You should consult with a Tonawanda,
 New York tax attorney if y
ou don't know what type of tax system your state has. Income
 Tax Deductions in Tonawanda, Ne
w York A tax deduction is a reduction in the portion of a person's income that is taxable, 
resulting in a lower tax liability. For exampl
e, suppose your income 
tax rate is 10%, and you had ,000 in incom
e last year. If you got a ,000 tax deduction, your taxable income would be ,
000, and you would have to pay 10% on that. So, it would reduce yo
ur tax liability from to . Don't confuse a tax deduction with a tax credit. A ta
x credit simply reduces your tax bill by the amount of the credit. A tax credit 
typically reduces your tax bill more th
an a deduction of the same amount. Many expenses in Tonawanda are tax-deductible, such a
s interest paid on mortgages
, charitable donations, the price of tax advice, and union dues, among othe
rs. How Can A Tonawanda, New York Tax Attorney Help? Income tax laws can get pretty co
mplex. If you are in Tonawanda, New York and have any questions about your taxes, 
you should consult with an accountant or loca
l tax attorney to avoid tax problems, such as audit or wage garnishment.
by: Sarah Gold Anzlovar, M
S, RDN, LDN According to a new report from the American Heart Association, nearly half of American
s have some form of cardiovascular disease. But it’s not all doom and gloo
m. Whether you’re 25 or 75, making the right lifestyle choices—including eating a healthy diet—ca
n significantly reduce your chance of developing cardiovascula
r disease. One of the best ways to keep 
your heart healthy is to eat more plants. When you eat vegan o
r a diet that prioritizes plants over animal products, you may reduce your risk of cardi
ovascular disease by lowering your intake of saturated fat (fat prima
rily found in animal foods that can contribute to heart disease). A truly heart-healthy
 diet goes beyond limiting or removin
g red meat and dairy, howeve
r. Eating more plants is just as, if not more, important! Show your heart some love by addi
ng these foods to you
r plate: Embrace the Power of Produce Fruits and vegetables are 
filled with vitamins, minerals, an
d phytonutrients that may reduce blood pressure and inflammation,
 two risk factors for heart disease. All pro
duce offers health benefits, but a few nutritional powerhouses 
for heart health include berries, dark leafy greens, and avocad
os. Get the Whole Grain Whole grains like oats, barley, farro, and wheat berries contai
n soluble fiber, which helps lower total and LDL cholesterol. High cholesterol is
 linked to an increased risk of heart attack and stroke. Aim to make at least half your 
grains whole. Go Nuts for Nuts (and Seeds) Nut
s and seeds contain heart-healthy fat
s known as monounsaturated fats
. Walnuts, along with hemp, chia, 
and flax seeds also provide plant-based omega-3 fatty acids, which may
 lower cholesterol and your risk for heart disease. Know the Benefits of B
eans Beans and legumes are powerful 
plant-based proteins filled with fiber, vitamins, minerals, and phytonutrient
s, all of which contribute to a
 healthy heart. In fact, replacing red meat with beans in your 
diet may reduce cholesterol and improve other risk factors for heart disea
se like blood pressure and inflammation. Flavor w
ith Herbs and Spices Skipping (or significantly r
educing) salt intake c
an lower blood pressure in people with hypertension. Less salt doesn’t hav
e to mean bland food, however. Turn to new herb
s and spices to elevate flavor in your meals. And for even more heart
 benefits, cook with garlic, which is full of antioxidants and is shown to red
uce cholesterol and blood pressu
re. Cook with Plant-Based Oils
 Replacing butter and other
 animal fats when cooking is an easy step toward impr
oving your heart health. Plant oils like olive and canola oil contain heart-healthy monouns
aturated fats. Olive oil is also known for its antioxidant properti
es from polyphenols, which may he
lp reduce inflammation. Other heart-healthy oils include avocado, flax, sesame and walnut
 oil. Ready to add more plants to your plate? Purple Carrot makes it easy to eat plant-based 
meals by delivering the in
gredients and recipes right to your door. Their meals are full of
 vegetables that promote heart health. Learn more about Purple Carrot 
meals here. Sarah Gold Anzlovar, MS, RDN, LDN is a Boston-based registered dietitian nut
ritionist (RDN) and nutrition communication speci
alist helping active people fuel their busy lives so they can
 feel their best. Sarah holds a Bachelor’s degree in Business Administration and Marketing from
 The George Washington University and a Master of Science in Nutrition Communication 
from Tufts University’s Friedman School of Nutr
ition Science and Policy. She completed her Dietetic Internship at Brigham 
and Women’s Hospital, a Harvard University teaching hospital in 
Boston, MA. When not in the
 kitchen, you can find Sarah seeking out the 
latest restaurant opening, teaching indoor cycling, running, training 
for triathlons, or hiking or skiing with her husband and golden retriever pup.
- Visual symbol is a graphics or group of elements (e.g. ic
on, button face, background art) that is used in the design - The designer can c
reate a reusable visual symbol from selected object(s). - New symbol is automatically added to Libr
ary as a master - The designer can make new instances of visual symbol in t
he design - Changes to a symbol appear everywhere it is used in the designs - Create overrides f
or specific parts of indi
vidual Symbols - Speed ups workf
low by giving a way to save and reuse c
ommon visual elements across the designs - No need to j
ump between different tools
The play that "changed American thea
tre forever" started
 with a few short lines from a long poem. By: Linnea Crowther 5 years ago The p
lay that "changed American theatre forever," accordin
g to The New York Times, started with a few short lines fro
m a long poem. What happens to a dream deferred? Does it dry up like a raisin in the 
sun? Langston Hughes
 wrote the poem, and 
Lorraine Hansberry was inspired – both by the poem and by her own rea
l-life experience – to write A Raisin in the Sun, the first play written
 by a black woman to be produced on Broadway. Today, on what would have bee
n her 82nd birthday, and we're celebrating Han
sberry’s groundbreaking work. One of the central conflicts of A Raisin in the Sun was loosel
y based on an event from Lorraine Hansberry
's own childhood. In 1938, her family bought a house in
 a white neighborhood, in violation of a restrictive covenant – which was legal at the time
 – prohibiting a black buyer from purchasing the house. The fight that ensued, a
gainst both the legal system and the hostile neighbors, deeply affected young Hansberry. Twenty yea
rs later, she channeled her memories of the stru
ggle into one of the greatest plays of
 the 20th century. A Raisin in the Sun debuted on 
Broadway in 1959, but not without a struggle.
 The plays almost all-black cast made it a risky investment in pre-Civ
il Rights America, and it took more than a year for producers to raise eno
ugh money to begin. Even as the curtain rose o
n opening night, Hansberry was pessimistic, expecting ba
d reviews. But her powerful wri
ting shone through, and the play was named the best play of
 the year by the New Y
ork Drama Critics' Circle, w
as nominated for four Tony Awards, and became
 a classic of American theater. Lorraine Hansberry (front row, 3R), at a pa
rty in honor of her Broadway play 'A Raisin in the Sun,' New York, New York, M
arch 1959. (Gordon Parks / Time Life Pictu
res / Getty Images) T
wo years later, around the end of the play's huge
ly successful Broadway run, the original cast starred in a movie version. It too was s
uccessful, with Golden Globe
 nominations for Sidney Poitier and Claudi
a McNeil. A Raisin in the Sun has lived on for many years beyond the original Broadway prod
uction and movie. In 1973, it was ba
ck on Broadway, though in a different format
 – as a Tony Award-winning musical, named Raisin. In 1989, a m
ovie was produced for television, star
ring Danny Glover and Esther Rolle. 2004 saw A Raisin in the Sun on Broadway 
yet again, with Sean Combs and Phylicia Rashad in leading roles, and in 2008 the cast reprised th
eir roles in another made-for-TV movie, earning several Emmy nominations. Times have changed great
ly since Lorraine Hansberry wrote A Raisin in the Sun. But her play remains a classic,
 with its themes of dreams and struggle, family and the home, still resonating today.
It swiftly brings the re
ader up to speed on techniques and functions
 commonly used in VHDL (VHSIC Hardware Description Language) as
 well as commands and data types. Extensive simple, complete designs accompany t
he content for maximum comprehension. The book concludes with a section on design re-
use, which is of utmost impo
rtance to today's engineer who needs to meet a deadline and lower costs per unit. *Gets you up to
 speed with VHDL fast, reducing time to market
 and driving down costs * Companion website with source code and other documents to assist th
e student in building the reference design u
sed throughout the book (http://www.elsevierdir
ect.com/companion.jsp?ISBN=9781856177047) This books helps you with : - I
ntroduction and Background: VHDL - Brief History of VHDL; FPGA Architecture
 - Overview of the Process of Implementing an FPGA Design: De
sign Entry; Synthesis; Simulation; Implementation; Bitstream Generation - Loo
p 1 - Going with the Flow: The Shape of VHDL - Loop 2 -
 Going Deeper: Introducing Processes, Variables and Sequential Statements: Tool Perspectiv
es - Synthesis Options 
and Constraints - Loop 3: Introdu
cing Concept of Reuse; Flexibility 
Using Generics and Constants; Functions and Procedures; Attributes; Packages; Commonly Used Libr
aries Copyright Disclaimer : This
 site does not store any files on its server. We only index and link to conte
nt provided by other sites. Please contact the content provid
ers to delete copyright contents if an
y and email us, we'll remove re
levant links or contents immediately.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia - View origin
al article Wade County was a political subdi
vision of the Choctaw Nation of Indian Territory. The county formed part of the nation’s Apukshunnub
bee District, or First District, one of three administrative super-regions. 
The county was named for Alfred Wade, a prominent Choctaw leader and statesman. Follo
wing the American Civil War—in which the Choctaw Nation joined the Confederate States of 
America—Wade was among the national leaders who traveled to Washington to negotiate with the Amer
ican government to secure peace, achieved at great cost via the Treaty of 
1866. Wade lived six miles east of Talihina.  The cou
nty seat of Wade County was Lenox, or Tuli Hina in the Choctaw language, 
five miles east of Whitesboro and 14 miles east of Talihi
na. Lenox was situated near the Kiamichi River. A United States Post Off
ice operated here from 18
96-1913. Lenox served primarily as a court ground, not as a population center. The Choctaw Nation’s
 capital, Tuskahoma, with its splendid Choctaw Capitol Building, was also located in 
the county. Wade County’s boundaries were, as were all Choctaw counties, d
esignated according to easily recognizable natural
 landmarks. As example, the confluence of Jack’s Fork Creek with the Kiamichi River—just out
side present-day Clayton, Oklahoma—served as the southwestern corner, with the county’
s landmass stretching to the east and north. From t
his corner point the southern border fo
llowed the Kiamichi south for a distance, and then tra
veled eastward along the tops of the Kiamichi Mountains framing the south side of the river valley
, south of Tuskahoma and Albion.  Like all Choctaw counties, Wade County served as
 an election district for members of the National Counci
l, and as a unit of local administration. Constitutional offic
ers, all of whom served for two-year terms and were elected by the voters, included the 
county judge, sheriff, and a range
r. The judge’s duties included oversight of overall cou
nty administration. The sheriff collected taxes, monitored unlawf
ul intrusion by intruders (usually white Americans from t
he United States), and conducted the census. The county
 ranger advertised and sold strayed livestock. 
 As Oklahoma’s statehood approached, its leading citizens, who 
were gathered for the Oklahoma Constitutio
nal Convention, realized in laying out the future state’s counties that, while logi
cally designed, the Choctaw Nation’s counties could not exist as economically viable political
 subdivisions. In most th
e county seat existed generally for
 holding county court, and not as a population center
. This was true of Lenox, too. While Wade County contained more sizeable 
towns than most, it would have to be dismantled in order to accommodate changes required by the r
egion as a whole. This conundrum was also re
cognized by the framers of the proposed State of Sequoyah, who met in 1905 to propose s
tatehood for the Indian Territory. The 
county structure proposed by the Sequoyah Constitutional Conve
ntion also abolished the Choctaw counti
es. Wade County was divided principally into the 
proposed Pushmataha and Wade counties. Talihina and Albion wo
uld have been Wade County’s chief towns. Much of this proposition was two years later borrowed
 by Oklahoma’s frame
rs, who largely adopted the proposed boundaries or concepts of these countie
s for the future Le Flore, McCurtain a
nd Pushmataha counties in Oklahoma. Certain shifts we
re made involving towns of Al
bion, which was given to the new Pushmataha County, and Wilburton, which was given to the new Le Flo
re County instead of Pittsburg County. 
The Sequoyah framework had called for Wilburton to be placed in the same county as Hartshorne, a
nd Albion to be grouped together with Talihina in a new Wade County. The territory formerly comprisi
ng Wade County now falls primarily within Le Flore and Pushmataha counties. Wade County ceased to e
xist upon Oklahoma’s statehood on November 16, 1907.
Meet Calestous Juma, Africa’s genetically modi
fied crop ‘optimist’ ‘Technological int
olerance’ has hampered adoption of GMO
s, particularly in Africa, says Harvard profe
ssor Calestous Juma. |Report an Error| Share via Email View 2 p
hotoszoom “I thought t
hese crops could have the potential to help 
protect the environment, for example
 if they reduced the use of chemicals, or if they allowed you to use less land to intensi
fy production.” When Calestous Juma was 9 years old, floods inundated his family’s village. Port Vi
ctoria sits on the Kenyan s
hore of Lake Victoria, just shy of the Ugandan border. As residents b
egan considering how to replan
t family farms on less land, Calestous’ father, John Juma, travelled to Uganda. He ret
urned with cuttings of the cassava plant, a
 starchy, carbohydrate-rich tuber. At the time, cassava was unfamiliar in th
at part of Kenya. The village debated whether to plant the cassava. Some wanted
 to wait until the water subsided and
 replant traditional crops. When w
ild pigs, displaced by
 the flood, came and ate some seedlings,
 villagers blamed John Juma’s cassava
 for attracting them. And “they we
re worried these plants would breed demons,
” says Calestous Juma. The cassava enthusiasts eventuall
y prevailed, however, and Juma says the crop ha
s become a staple in Kenya. Fifty years later, Juma cites those debates as
 the fuel for his interest in agricultural innovati
on, the issue that knits together a career that has taken him from Kenya, to the U
.K., Canada and the U.S. Juma is a professor of the practice of international de
velopment at Harvard, the director of the science, technology and globalization pro
ject at the Harvard Kennedy School, and the director of the Agricultural Innovation in Africa Pr
oject, funded by the Bill and Melind
a Gates Foundation. But the cassava story also exp
lains the frustration that seeped from a speech he gave in Montreal, when he accept
ed an honourary degree from McGi
ll University. Juma, who calls himself a genetically modified cr
op “optimist,” titled the speech “A Plea for Agricultural Inno
vation” and used the platform to decry the “
technological intolerance” that has hampered the adoption of GMOs, particularly in Africa. He says 
the debates around biotechnology remind him of the cassava arguments in his village in the
 early 1960s. “Very often, we may overreact about the pos
sible negative impacts of (new technologies), and make decisions that are based on e
motion, rather than on evidence.
” Critics of biotechnology argue that the hesitation to 
adopt genetically modi
fied crops is a matter of prudence, not fear: it reflects ou
r limited knowledge of their
 effectiveness and safety. But Juma says evidence in support of GMOs is growing, and hope
s they will soon be as familiar as cassava, particularly in Africa. “Sixt
y per cent of the world’s arable land available today is in Africa. All efforts to feed the world — 
not just to feed Africa, but to feed the world — in the next decade or more are going to focus on A
frica. Which means Africa has to do it right, and have the scientific basis not to mess it up.” 
The agricultural challenges of fee
ding 9 billion people — the world’s projected population by 2050 — “are su
fficiently gargantuan that we are going to need every tool in the kit,” says V
al Giddings, senior fellow with the Washington-based Information Technology and Innovation Foundati
on and a friend of Juma’s. “He has quite unde
rstandably become less patient.” Source of inspiration If Juma’s early interest in agriculture wa
s fed by his father’s at
tempts to introduce cassava, his early interest in science and technology came f
rom watching John Juma work as a carpenter. As a child, Calestous became known in the villag
e as someone with a penchant for fixi
ng things. When he was 12, his parents excused him from churc
h on Sundays to develop a 
small business repairing broken radios and record players. Juma’s mother was another sour
ce of inspiration. She ga
ve up farming to become a trad
er of fish, maize and 
other foods, learning a new language, Lu
o, in the process. “Being able to think about new things, doin
g new things, experimenting, was always a big part of 
my early childhood,” says Juma. The family did
n’t have enough money to send him to university, how
ever. So, at 19, Juma became a science teacher in Mombasa. 
Classes ended at midday; Juma spent his afternoons at the local library penning letters ab
out various issues to the Daily Natio
n newspaper. His letters became popular and edito
rs eventually persuaded him to become a science and environment reporter. A
s far as Juma is aware, he was the only science reporter in sub-Sahar
an Africa. After a ye
ar at the Daily Nation, he was hi
red by the Canadian head of a Nairobi-based environmental group launc
hing a magazine funded by the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA). The connectio
ns he made led to a scholarship from Canada’s International Development Research Centre (
IDRC) that sent him to the University of Sussex for a masters and PhD in science 
and technology policy. After Juma retu
rned to Nairobi, he established the
 Africa Center for Technology Studies, the continent’s first think-tank that applied science 
and technology to development issues. In 1995, he was hired by the United Nations to 
become the executive secretary of the convention on biological diversity. 
When the convention established its permanent home i
n Montreal, Juma moved t
o Canada. His Montreal move in 1996 coincided with the first pl
anting of commercial GM crops in the U.S., and
 the explosion of interest and concern in the technology. At the UN group he no
w headed, there was massive debate. Many argued GM crops would harm the e
nvironment and only benefit rich, large-scale farmers. “I had come from the environmental
 field, and I thought these crops actually could have the
 potential to help protect the environment, for example if they reduc
ed the use of chemicals, or if they allowed you to use less land to intensify production
.” Juma used his speech in Montreal last week to argue that
, 17 years after those first commercial GM crop plantings, 
research has confirmed his early views. A total 
of 108.7 million hectares of land were saved between 199
6 and 2011 through the efficiency of biotech crops, according to the International Service for 
the Acquisition of Agri-biotech Applications (ISAAA), a pro-GMO not-for-profit. The
 ISAAA and other research has calculated that GMOs saved hundreds of millions of ki
lograms of chemical pesticides since 1996 and reduced greenhouse gas emi
ssions by billions of kilograms. Some dispute those figures — particularly on pe
sticide reduction, since new research shows more insects are evolving 
resistance to GM crops. Research on the e
conomic boon to poor farmers is clearer. In a 2003 article in the jour
nal Science that has been cited more than 550 times, a German-U.S. academic team ex
amined farm trials in India of insect-resistant GM cotton. The GM crops sa
w yield boosts of 80 per cent compared to the conventional variety — a much great
er advantage than most U.S. farmers s
aw when switching to GM, since unlike the poor Ind
ian farmers, the Americans had been using sophisticated c
hemical insecticides. One of the authors of the Science paper published another study this mo
nth in PLOS ONE showing that small-scale Indian farm households growing
 GM cotton also saw better calorie consumption and dietary quality, as a result of higher inco
mes. The researchers estimated that the GM technology was responsible for a 15 to 20 per cent 
drop in food insecurity in those households. In Burkina Fas
o, a 2010 study showed farmers who u
sed GM cotton increased their yields enough to raise their annual cotton income by 31 
per cent — an average income boost of $207 for
 farmers who earned just $65
7 from the crop. Yet only fou
r African countries — Burkina Faso, Egypt, Sudan and South Africa — allow commercial GMO
 crops. In some African countries, GMO field trials aren
’t even permitted. In Montreal, Juma poin
ted to a popular culprit for this
 reticence: policy-mak
ers in Europe, where deep restrictions on biotechnology have been in place for more
 than a decade. In a 2010 pol
l, more than 60 per cent of European respond
ents said GMOs made them “uneasy.” “The delays (in Africa) can
 be partly attributed to technologica
l intolerance, much of which has been handed down by European anti-biotechnology acti
vism,” Juma said in Mo
ntreal. “There are several
 different channels of external influence on Af
rica’s policy area in this regard, and Europeans dominate most of 
those channels,” says Robert Paarlberg, a professor of political science at Wellesley Colle
ge, who has known Juma
 for over a decade. Paarlberg and others say the influence of aid money, post-col
onial relationships, instituti
ons like the UN, and activist organizations li
ke Greenpeace have allowed European leaders to pressure and scare African governments into resisti
ng biotechnology. Critics, however, question the time, attention and money being heap
ed on biotechnology at the expense of other possible solutions to the
 problem of global food security. “The assumption that’s being made by people like Juma is that we
 can only get there by using genetic engineering, and of 
course the implication is that other technologies can’t get us there,” says Doug Gurian-Sherman, sen
ior scientist at the Union of Concerned Scientists food and environment program. “We simply don’
t know that.” Gurian-Sherman wants to examine solutions like conventiona
l breeding techniques, improved irrigation and decreased food waste. Juma says biotec
hnology is not a silver bullet — but we cannot afford to ignore 
its promise. Growing more vocal In 1998, Juma left Montreal
 for Boston (his wife, Alison, is from Boston, though they met i
n Ottawa; their son Eric is 15). Juma parlayed a fellowship at Harvard into his current
 array of titles. He says he left his UN job primar
ily because he didn’t want to see the Cartagena Protocol on Biosafety passed under his
 watch; it tightly regulates the handling, transport and use of GM organisms, and Juma has ca
lled it the product of a “pessimistic world view.” Today, Juma disseminates his 
own world view through talks, teaching, publications and a 35,000-follow
er Twitter account. He has also co-chai
red high-level panels on biotechnology and innovation 
for the African Union. Biotechnology is b
y no means Juma’s only interest. He is concerned with the poor commu
nication between research organizations and teaching universities in Afri
ca, which hampers innovati
on. And he’s worried about infrastructure: it’s no use using genetic modif
ication to grow more corn per hectare if farmers can’t get the c
orn to market. But Juma is growing ever m
ore vocal about genetically modified crops 
as the papers mount and the
 problems grow. “I follow the evidence,” he sa
ys. “It’s not that I’m more of an advocate. It’s that there’s more evidence 
to share.” Juma’s nearly 70,000 
tweets mostly consist of s
hared stories and articles. But he also
 has a penchant for tweeting quota
tions. A few of the most recent: - Canadian wins Nobel Priz
e for work 'crucial to our view of the universe' - NEW Conservatives prom
ise $1 billion for auto industry - Inc
ome gap in Toronto is growing, w
arns new report - Jays' Donaldson out for redemption, revenge in pla
yoffs - Tories of all persuasions will be happy selling the TPP: H
ébert - NEW Montreal to dump 8 billion litres of raw sewage into St. Lawrence - Ottawa loses
 bid to put niqab ruling on hold - Scotiabank drops ou
t as major Nuit Blanche sponsor
It is clear that real violence against another human violates the first statement. This 
is definitely backed up by their non violent behaviour. Controlled exp
eriments place little emphasis on thi
s relationship. The 
list gets longer the more I study!
 It is within this context 
that violent video games are blamed by the media, or invoked in discuss
ions about high school massacres McCormickp. The game a child pl
ays can be a good or a bad thi
ng in his life. The news is filled with stories of war, and murder. That kind of violence is unfor
tunately what entertains millions of Americans. However, it is important to note that w
hen a child plays a violent game he is lik
ely to experience some physiological effects. There are many games on the market 
and movies that have portrayed snipers shoo
ting people. This observation waters down the chances of violent games leading to v
iolent behaviour in children. Vice City, is there an ethical issue of any kind in this case? Cons
equently, his performance at school d
efinitely deteriorates. To ban or re
strict any type of med
ia based on purely supposed immoral grounds is paternalistic and
 a form of legal moralism. The game focuses on eliminating the other team
;hence teamwork has a major role in succeeding the game. Ultimately, it will 
be shown that violent video games are immoral, not because of their effects, consequences, or failu
re of duty, but because of the impact they have on the virtue of the player. This was achieved by l
ooking at the problem through the ethical approaches of conse
quentialism, deontology and virtue ethics. It is a game, make
 believe, not real. So in conclusion, violence in video games is s
hown to be harmless and in some cases it may ev
en help you. A critique of the morality of violen
t video games What are the arguments that violent video games ar
e immoral? Several studies have been conducted to investiga
te the relationship betwe
en such games and violent behaviour in children. Some media commentators have sought to link vid
eo game violence to the horrendous spate of school shootings which have become a sad rea
lity in the USA and Europe. In general video gam
es is an astonishing t
ool to keep children entertained during leisure time. The a
ct of playing computer games has many consequences, however, the
 moral implications of playing violent games is hard to determine Reyn
oldsp. He also has a responsibility to release the game to the 4 million consumers who have alrea
dy pre-ordered the game
. Where the deontologist does have an argument, is
 that there is clear justification for 
regulation based on the duty of governments to protect its citizens from harm. To 
support this argument, empi
rical research which supposedly links violent video games and real world aggressive beha
viour is raised in support of this position Schulzkep. One effect that is comm
on with all of them is their addict
ion. Some people believe that the connection between violent games, and real violence 
is also fairly intuitive. These options will ignite the sense of logica
l thinking, and strategy formations in which formal education does not offer. Yes, 
because the game is already classifie
d the game from 17 years up and is legal, so the choice of buying the game depends
 on the children who want it and of the parents who buy 
it to their kids. Mill, JSOn liberty, representative
 government, the subjection of women: An Anthology 2nd editionBlackwe
ll Publishing, Cambridge, pp. 
In playing the games kids are lik
ely to become desensitized to gory image
s;which could make them less disturbing, and perhaps easier to deal with in real life. In ot
her words, the virtue of the player is eroded,
 and they are distanced from the chance to achieve eudaimonia — a deep and fulfi
lled happiness through the capacity to reason; tha
t is, to be human McCormickp. Friendships can sometimes be developed through playing video games
,and ultimately keep
ing them away from drug usage, 
and violent activities. From this 
perspective, the immorality of a violent video
 game should focus on how players act, with the morality of the act being determined by how others
 are treated within the game world Schulzkep.Essay: A criti
que of the morality of violent video games What 
are the arguments that violent video games are immoral? 
Which arguments. GET EVEN A BETTER ESSAY WE WILL WRITE A C
USTOM ESSAY SAMPLE ON Ethics: Selling
 Violent Video Games TOPICS SPECIFICALLY FOR YOU. Order now. Violent Video Games and Ethics Essay b
y gm, University, Bachelor's, March
 download word file, 3 pages do
wnload word file, 3 pages 8 votes 1 reviews/5(1). The first and most important reas
on why violent video games have negative impact on child is it’s negative physical conseq
uences. Violent Video Games Chi
ldren And Young People Essay. Print Reference this If you are the original writer of this essa
y and no longer wish to have the essay publish
ed on the UK Essays website then. The video games phenomenon is somewhat new in this mode
rn society. Although they often to be entertaining, the contents have become
 more violent and disturbing as computing technol
ogy has become much more advanced. These days, the popularity of violent vid
eo games has caused an increase in controversy. Parents and experts feel that some games. Ethica
l Issues Of Video Games A
nd Violence Philosophy Essay If anyone wants t
o buy and play violent video 
games, she/he should buy and play them. Further, if al
l people would play violent video games then level of violence, aggression, and ant
i-social behaviour would increase dramatically and finally I would be
 involved in the created.Download
A Day to Mark Fallen Species Eighty years ago, t
he world’s last Tasmanian tiger, also known as the thylacine,
 died in Hobart Zoo in Australia. This year, animal lovers and conserva
tionists around the world will mark the extinction of the thylacine an
d other vanished creatures on the sixth annual Remembrance Day for Lost Species. The gloomy ho
liday will be “celebrated” with art installations, public talks, memorials, and oth
er events in more than a dozen countries on Nov. 30. Founder Persephone Pearl, an ar
tist and the codirector of the ONCA art gallery in Bristol, England, said the event aims to
 show that “learning to grieve is part of the process of he
aling our broken culture.”
 Pearl came up with the idea for Lost S
pecies Day in 2010 after creating a mock extinction funeral as “part of an 
all-night climate vigil” meant to hold the incoming U.K. government 
to the commitments it made earlier that year at an 
international climate conference. Other peo
ple got involved, and a full-scale theater piece called Fune
ral for Lost Species was held in spring 2011. The first official Remembrance D
ay for Lost Species was he
ld later that year, and things have snowballed since the
n. This year there are so many events that “I can’t keep track of them anymore,
” Pearl said. Although most of the events are scheduled fo
r Nov. 30, a few have taken place, including one at a park in South London, 
this past weekend. Organizers
 handed out leaflets that looked 
like “lost pet” signs but were about recently extinct species. “Then we read out a 
list of 125 extinct species and the years in which they were declared e
xtinct,” said organizer Daniela Othieno, who has created Lost Species Day a
rt projects for the past three years. “Fo
r me, getting involved in Lost Species Day is as mu
ch about raising awareness as about processing my own thoughts and feelings about what is happ
ening and giving others an opportunity and space to do the same.” Othieno said that event produced a
 lot of emotion and some confusion among the people 
in the park. “Many people told us that they were glad we we
re doing it, but quite a few expressed t
otal surprise at the rate of extinction,”
 she said. “Some confessed they had never really thought abo
ut it.” In the United States, tattoo artist J. Trip, cofounder 
of an endangered species awareness effort called the Holocene Project, will be creating extinction-t
hemed hourglass tattoos in Englewood, Colora
do. “You can put one anywhere on your body you want and
 start spreading knowledge as soon as someone asks you about it,” he said. Othe
r scheduled events include an
 expedition in New Orleans in memory of the ivory-billed woodp
ecker; an extinction vigil in Washin
gton, D.C.; a musical procession for lost species in New York City; and a ceremony for the th
ylacine in Brisbane, Australia. Pearl said she hopes to continue Lost Species
 Day for many years t
o come and praised what other artists have brought to the message. “I lo
ve the interdisciplinary action of artists, biologists, and con
servationists working together,” she said. “This is a time of grief,” she said. It’s also one of re
membrance.
In an effort to assess the effects of surface water withdr
awl, FWRI's Fisheries-Independent Monitoring Program, Southwest Fl
orida Water Management District, and Tampa Ba
y Water are working togethe
r to monitor several
 rivers along the west coast. As Florida's population increases, demands for surface
 water withdrawals to meet potable water demands also increase. Freshwater mu
st often be extracted from various water bodies in the state to 
meet this demand, and tidal rivers are often selected as suitable locations. However, the same
 freshwater that is being harvested is a key ingredient for the
 state's estuaries. Each day, millions of gallons of freshwater ent
er into Florida's bays and estuaries. This water quickly
 mixes with the saltwater, creating within the estuary a salinity gradient that 
ranges from freshwater to full-strength saltwater. This range between freshwater and saltw
ater is necessary for the estuary's inhabitants to fl
ourish. In fact, the major
ity of marine fish caught by recre
ational anglers (i.e. red drum) depend upon this influx of freshwater for at least the early sta
ge in their lives. Several rivers flowing into Fl
orida's estuaries have beco
me sites for freshwater withdraw t
o satisfy the demands of Florida's growing population. Scientists ha
ve worked for years to define the point at which withdraws begin to disrupt the ecosystem. Water re
source managers call this limit the Minimum Flows and Levels (MFL) for the water 
body. Florida statutes (Section 373.042) require that water management districts
 across the state establish MFL for all water bodies. Several of the water mana
gement districts have funded short-term monitoring programs to develo
p baseline data that can be used to establish more meaningful MFL. In addition to Minimum Flows
 and Levels, the water management distr
icts oversee water resource permitting. In the late 1990s, Tampa Bay Water, 
a government agency that provides w
holesale water to Hillsborough, 
Pasco, and Pinellas counties, was granted a permi
t by the Southwest Florida Water Management District to w
ithdraw additional surface
 waters from the Hillsborough, Alafia, and Palm rivers during periods of high
 water flow. In granting this permit, the
 Southwest Florida Water Management Dist
rict (SWFWMD) required that Tampa Bay Water initiate the comprehensive Hydro-Biological Monito
ring Program (HBMP). 
The HBMP is designed to ensure t
hat water flows do not deviate from the
 normal rate to the extent that water quali
ty, vegetation, and animal populations are adversely
 affected, that salinity di
stributions in tidal streams and estuaries are not significa
ntly altered, and that recreational use and aesthetic qualities of the resource are not adv
ersely The multi-disc
iplined HBMP established by Tampa Bay Water surveys hydrol
ogy, water quality, benthic fauna, zooplankton and ichthyoplankton, fish and macro
-invertebrates, emergent and shoreline vegetation, and birds. Most of th
e surveys employ a stratified-random sampling desig
n, so the data collected can be used to describe the entire study site. The Fisheries-Independent
 Monitoring Program at the Fish and Wildlife Research Institute has been contracted to conduct the
 fish and macro-invertebrate survey portion
 of the study. During each of these studies, th
e Fisheries-Independent Monitoring (FIM) program collects fish and m
acro-invertebrate samples at randomly selected sites within e
ach river. In each study area, shallow water samples (<1.8 m) are collected wit
h 21.3 m seines, and deeper 
water samples (>1.8 m) are collected with 6.1 m otter 
trawls. All fish and select macro-invertebrates (blue crabs, stone crabs, pin
k shrimp, and grass shrimp) are identified to species and counted. Fish
 lengths are also recorded
 prior to releasing the animals. Spec
imens are visually inspected for external abnormalities, such
 as parasites, ulcers, and tumors. Anima
ls determined to have abnormalities are returned 
to the lab for further analy
sis. Additional data recorded at each sample site include the - Habitat-
bottom vegetation, bottom type, an
d shore type - Site-latitude, longitude
, and depth - Weather-wind, cloud cover - Water-salinity, temperature, pH
, dissolved oxygen, clarity, Also, monitoring is taking place on the Myakka river and
 Venice inlet for 18 month
s to support establishing MFL. A similar twelve-month study is taking p
lace on the Weeki Wachee river.
How to Paint a Venice Canal in Watercolour We are so used to normal roads that are constructed on te
rra firma that we tend to forget there also waterways in certain areas which a
re the only means of transport. There are wate
r roads (canals) in various
 countries such as England , Holland, and in Venice, etc. In this class you will paint one of
 Venice’s canals in watercolour. I
n this lesson you will learn: 1. How to paint
 a different colour sky 2. How to paint a sunlit wall 3. Ho
w to simplify the windows a
nd wall details 4. How to paint the water reflections 5. and much more No
 Reviews Yet With a soft pencil such as a 3B, rub graphite on the b
ack of the template and then trace it over onto t
he watercolour paper. With the top well
 taped down, check every so often to see if the line
s have been transferred properly. The
 lines must not be to
o light. Plan the whites Carefully look a
t your reference photograph to locate all
 the areas that need to be kept white. Carefully cover them with masking fl
uid. Use a smallish ro
und brush, remembering to clean the brush every so often – more often than not. Paint the 
sky Wash in the blue of the sky and lighten it as it nears the horizon. Add more water 
to the mix to do this or you can s
imply lighten it up with a thirsty brush. While still damp, drop in a very light touch of red
 to the lower part to add some glow into the sky. If it is too red then lift 
some of the colour out until you have the correct hue. Block in the wa
lls of the building Start with the furthest buildings that are in the sun. Th
e add a medium brown wash for the wall on t
he right, which is in the s
hade. These first washes are to establish the colour and tonal ranges -sunshine and shadow
s. Block in the darks Painting in of the darks first helps to give a 
sense of perspective and proportion to the sc
ene. Don't go too dark at this stage. Pl
ot in the foliage and shadows of the window boxes. Add them in a very impres
sionistic manner. Notice that the colours and the tonal ranges o
f the window baskets lighten and get duller as they recede into the distance. This gives the impres
sion of depth to the painting. Adding the shadows The 
shadows on the wall are glazed over with a warm purple gl
ow. This glaze has been add
ed over the light brown wall as well. When glazing, make sure that the pain
ting is completely dry, and then apply wi
th a very light pressure so as not to disturb the detail under
neath. Walls in deep shade Because the sun is on the right side, thi
s wall is in deep shade. Begin to add in the windows with a darker mix of the shade colour. The 
main building With the darker colour carefully negative paint out the shapes of the pillars. Darker 
shadows have also been added to the flower boxes. Add touches of red to the window boxes to brighte
n up the scene. Paint the canal water Establish the shadow along the building edg
e. The lighter colour is the pavement and the darker colour is the vertical wall 
of the embankment. Block in the basic colour of 
the boats. Paint in the reflection of the sky with bright blue. 
Main water reflections When blocking the main reflection
, remember to keep th
e edges jagged to emulate the ripples in the water. Keep all lines in the vertical and NOT cross
wise at all. While the paint is still damp (not wet) drop in the dark reflect
ions so that the edges soften out slightly. 
Add the poling sticks Paint the two poling sticks that have been parked for future use
. The light strip is the pavement and the darker strip is the reflection of the pavement wal
l. Add the jagged reflections of the do
wnpipe and the poles Add the fence in the distance. The main ri
pples in the water With
 a flat, hard brush that ha
s been dampened, care
fully lift out some ripples, being careful to keep them perfectly horizontal to the bottom ed
ge of your painting. You can also carefully scratch out the reflec
tions with a craft knife. You May Also Like
Choose one of the following Rocks for more details: Var. chiastoli
te. Andalusite is stable at low pressures and 
temperatures. Slate shingl
es cover the Museum's central dome and roof. S
late makes good shingles because it splits easily into thin, durable
 sheets of solid rock. Why? It contains platelik
e mica minerals arranged in narrowly spaced 
layers. Slate with deformed trilobite fossil Deformation related to 
faulting flattened the black fractured rock and its fossil at an angl
e to the original layers. You can see the result: a long, asymmetri
c trilobite. Slate with Chevron folds Deforme
d while cooler and less 
ductile, this slate buckled into more angular folds. Slate with undeformed trilobite fos
sil Flowing rocks can be stretched into elongated forms. Compar
e this specimen and the other piece with the sa
me number. Once, both of these trilobite fossils looked alik
e.
June 1, 2018 - Results from the 2015 Residential Energy Con
sumption Survey (RECS), released today 
by the U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA), now include estimates of energy consumpt
ion for an expanded list of ener
gy end uses. For electricity, the number of end uses estimated has expanded from 4 to 26 by add
ing estimates for equipment such as dishwashers, clothes washers, clothes drye
rs, televisions, and lighting. The expanded end-use categori
es that consume electricity vary widely in how much energy they consume and how common
ly they are found in the 118 million U.S. homes that are occupied as a primary res
idence. Lighting is used in all homes and consumes a substantial portion of electricity
— 10% of the total electricity used in homes. Nearly every
 home had a television in 2015; only about 3% of homes had no television. Televis
ions and their associated peripheral devices such as set top boxes and internet s
treaming devices use 7% of the electricity used 
in homes each year. Other equipment is relatively less common but can account for a larger share
 of electricity consumption in the homes that have them. For 
instance, only 7.9 mill
ion homes, or about 7% of the national total, reported using a pool pum
p. Nationwide, pool pumps cons
ume 1% of the electricity used in homes, but among homes that have pool pumps
, the equipment consumes 8% of
 total electricity consumed each year. R
efrigerator energy consumption and expenditures have been report
ed since the 1990 RECS. The 2015 estimates provide additional detail to this category, with sepa
rate estimates for the most-used and, 
in the homes that have them, the se
cond-most-used refrigerator in a home. As a group, refrigerators use 7% of the electricity used. 
Most energy consumed for refrigeration is
 consumed by the most-used refriger
ator in a home (77%), with second refrigerators consuming 18% of total refrigeration consumption 
nationwide. New estimates are also 
available for other common electric appliances, including clothes dryers (5% of to
tal electricity consumption), microw
aves (1%), dishwashers (1%), and cooking (1%), which c
ollectively covers st
oves, ovens, and cooktops. For dishwashers and clothes washers, the est
imates cover only the electricity used to operate the
 equipment and not the energy used to heat the water drawn by 
these appliances; that energy would be account
ed for in the estimate for water heating. These end uses and the other previously itemized estimate
s collectively cover 87% of residential e
lectricity use. The remaining category “not elsewhere classified,” now co
mprises only 13%, and combines a number of
 end uses that were not publishable indivi
dually, such as computers, smartphones, and small kitchen appliances, as well as consump
tion from end uses not captured on the RECS Household Survey. From 1990 through 2009, RECS e
stimated consumption and expenditures for four end-use categories: space heating, air condi
tioning, water heating, and refrigerators; the remainder was aggregated as other. In 2015, nearl
y half of residential electri
city consumption fell into this other category. As certain app
liances and equipment have become more prevalent in homes, this remainder category became a larg
er share of residential energy consumption, especially for electricity. More detail is also availab
le for natural gas and propane end uses. For natural gas, the 2015 RECS provides expanded 
estimates for natural gas cooking, clothes dryers, pool heaters, and
 hot tub heaters. For propane, the new end uses detailed are clothes dryers and cooking.
 These data are available in tables as well as a microdata file. Before 2015,
 previous RECS surveys used statistical regression models to dis
aggregate a home’s energy consumption across published end uses.
 With the 2015 study, EIA transitioned to using engineering 
models which incorporate more information and usage behavior from the RECS Household Survey,
 from equipment specifications, and from research, to produc
e improved estimates of ener
gy consumption of devices in homes. T
his improvement in methods for energy allocation affects compar
isons with prior RECS. In order to assist data us
ers interested in analyzing th
e time series of end-use consumption, EIA has published a brief report de
scribing how this change in methodology has affected end-use est
imates. EIA has also updated the methodology report for this survey t
o provide more information on the consumption data collection and en
d-use estimation approach. CoalZoom.com - Your Foremost Source for Coal News
Children drink water and then suffer from diarrhea.Nowshera, where AAR has been carrying
 out its activities, has no sewer
age system and only 20% of this region has ac
cess to water supply. People mostly satisfy their need for water usin
g wells, but the locations of some wells cause problems such as the infiltratio
n of colon bacillus into the water through the surrounding drainage. As such, most o
f their water is not appr
opriate for drinking. However, there is no alternative water
 resource here. Our prior inquiry indicates that as many as 48% of the pupils of Pakistani 
public elementary schools
 and 69% of the pupils of 
Afghan refugees’ primary schools developed diarrhea within the past one mont
h. |AAR’s support has enabled pupils to drink clean water. | At Mera Akor
a Khattak Pakistani Governm
ent Primary School for Boys. (December 18th, 2013.)
by William Dollarhide If you are 
a genealogist, you ar
e an avid user of the federa
l censuses, 1790 to 19
30. But even experienced census users may not know about some
 of the obscure aspects of the censuses. Here's one of them. It's called the "census day." 
Beginning with the 17
90 federal census--and continuing with every census thereafter--each enabling law authorized by Co
ngress specified a "census day" f
or gathering the census information from every household in America. 
From 1790 to 1820 the ce
nsus day was the first Monday in August. The census day was NOT the 
day the enumerator arrived at a household; it was the day for which all the statistics
 of the census were colle
cted. The instructions given to all the U.S. Ma
rshals just prior to the 1820 census "All the questions refer to the day when the enumeration is to 
commence, the first Monday in August next. Your assista
nts will thereby understand that they are to insert in their returns all the person
s belonging to the family on the first Monday in August, even those 
who may be deceased at the 
time when they take the account; 
and, on the other hand, that they will not include in it in
fants born after that day." Similar in
structions have been given fo
r every census since 1790, but with different census d
ays. The table below shows the census day for each census, 1790 to 1930, and th
e time allowed to take the census: C
ensus Year / Census Day / Time Allowed 179
0 / 2 August / 9 months 18
00 / 4 August / 9 months 1810 / 6 August /
 10 months 1820 / 7 August / 13 months 1830 / 1 Jun
e / 12 months 1840 / 1 June / 18 months 1850 / 1 June /
 5 months 1860 / 1 June / 5 months 1870/ 1 June / 5 months 1880 / 1 June/ 1 month 18
90 / 1 June / 1 month 1900 / 1 June / 1 mon
th 1910 / 15 April / 1
 month 1920 / 1 January / 1 month 1930 / 1 April / 1 month 1820 & 1830 Census Day Differ
ences: On the above table, note that t
he census day changed 
in 1830 from the first Monday in August to the first day of June. If one is research
ing families appearing 
in the 1820 and 1830 censuses, looking at these families 
again may be important. Since the c
ensus days for 1820 and 1830 are 
not exactly 10 years apart, the two-mo
nth difference may rev
eal some surprising results. For exampl
e, if a person were born between 1 June 1820 and 7 August 1820,
 that child would appear in the 1820 census in the "under 10" age cat
egory. But in 1830, that same person would appear in the "of 5 and 
under 10" rather than the "of 10 and under 15" age category, since the pers
on had not yet The age category for anyone born between 1 June and 7 August in any yea
r would be affected by this reporting change between 1820 and 1
830. Comparing the 1820 age categories for a person appear
ing 10 years later and not in the "correct" age category may actually g
ive a clue to a person's date of birth within a two-month period. 
Time Allowed to Take a Census: On the table above, note the time allowed to take each ce
nsus. All of the sta
tes complied with this provision, except South Carolina in 1790. South Carolina 
could not complete its 1790 enumeration in nine mon
ths. The U.S. Marshal complained t
hat he was having great 
difficulty finding people to take the job because of resistance to the census b
eing taken. A Charleston jury met to decide the fate of six persons who had "refused to rende
r an account of persons in t
heir households as required by the census act." A South Carolina census taker was brought on trial f
or neglect of duty because he did no
t complete the census in his district. These and other problems led to South Carolina being grante
d an extension, and the census returns were dated 5 February 1792, a full 18 mon
ths after the census day. Differ
ing Census Days: In a couple of cases, there have been census days assigned to
 certain states that were different from the rest of the U.S. for that year. Wh
en Vermont entered the Union as the 14t
h state in 1791, the 1790 census was already underway. Vermont's 1790 census wa
s taken with a census day of the first M
onday in April 1791, with five months allowed
 to take the census there. Utah, which became a territory in Sept
ember 1851, had its 1850 census taken with a census day of 1 April 1851. But the dates on the 
Utah census pages are mostly in October 1851. Thus, the 1851 cens
us enumerators probably asked Utahans questions like, "Six m
onths ago, back on April 1st, who was the head of this household
?" Census Day Versus Enu
meration Date: Genealogists should 
record two dates when copying information from the censuses: the censu
s day and the enumeration date. No matter how many months it took for an enumerator to reach a hou
se, he was supposed to gather the info
rmation as if time had stopped on the census day. Every person
 whose regular abode was in a particular household on the 
census day was to be enumerated, even if a person was away at the time of 
the enumeration. Understanding the impact of the census da
y versus the enumeratio
n date may explain why certain people appear in a census listing, even though 
you have other evidence to show th
e person died before the household was enumerated. If a person was alive on the 
census day, that person was to be included--even if it took some time for the enumerator
 to get around to that house to take the census. The person could have been dead 
for several Or, you may wonder why that youngest child in a family was not listed
 in a census. If a child were born after the census day, that child was n
ot to be included--even if the census taker had visited the house and was aware of a playf
ul little toddler crawling around in front of him. Now
, some of you will want to go back to all of those census lists you have copied down and conf
irm the date of enumeration AND the census day. Any missing people? Any extra people? Good census h
unting!
||A Wikibookian believes this page should be s
plit into smaller pages with a narrower subtopic. 
You can help by splitting this big page into smaller ones. Please make sure to follow the nami
ng policy. Dividing books into smaller sections can provide more 
focus and allow each 
one to do one thing well, which benefits everyone. Overlaps the other book
: Introduction to Software Engineering The idea of this book is to couple together th
e different projects on the different subjects of software engineering. Currently the
 only book linked is Computer Programming. Other subjects shoul
d be added over time. As 
written in the Computer Programming book, coding is only a small part of softwa
re engineering. This 
book is intended as an introduction to the realm of software engineering. What is software engineeri
ng?Edit A systematic app
roach to the analysis, design, implementation and maintenance of software. Soft
ware engineering is the engineering discipline throug
h which software is developed. Commonly the process involves findi
ng out what the client wants, composing this in a list of requirements, des
igning an architecture capable of supporting all of the requirements, designing, coding, testing an
d integrating the separate parts, testing the whole, deploying and mai
ntaining the software. Programming is only a 
small part of software engineering. The dis
cipline is still in its infancy (early stage of growth/development) as an engineering disci
pline. We haven't had enough experience, nor gathered enough 
empirical data to systematically understand and predict the life-cycle of
 a software project. The Software Engineering Body of Knowledge (SWEBOK) divides software engineerin
g into 10 knowledge areas: - Software requirements - Software design -
 Software construction - Software testing - Software m
aintenance - Software configuration management - Software engineering m
anagement - Software engineering proc
ess - Software engineering tools and methods - Software quality The content of the fi
eldEdit Note: the following summaries are originally from Wikipedia. These are here o
nly temporarily. The titles aren't final, nothing on this page is final yet (or eve
n near final). Vision and ScopeEdit The practice of software engineering in the corporat
e or industrial sector, starts with the business and ends wi
th the business. Although computers, progr
amming languages, and creative problem solving are what fill the engineer with interest in the fiel
d, without servicing and enabling the user,
 the exercise would be pointless. Thus
 the first stage in any software engineering process, is the Vision and Scope document, or some eq
uivalent meeting. A vision of the system to be built is described by the user or Product C
hampion. The business context that it will service is described. The key stakeholders are enumerate
d including their interests, risks, etc. The
 success conditions are listed, so that it is understood what will be completed and h
ow to measure success. Business
 opportunities are dis
cussed, to justify why the project should
 be invested with the blood, sweat, and tears of programmers, testers, project manag
ers, and program managers. The Scope of the project is made clear
 and if it is to be in phases, the scope of each phase at a h
igh level is laid out. The priorities of the project are recorded. With an understanding
 of the business' vision, the engineers begin to ask questions. Extracting requiremen
ts of a desired software product is the first task in creating it. This process 
is called requirements elicitation
. While customers probably believe they know what the software should 
do, it may require skill
 and experience in software engineering to recogniz
e incomplete, ambiguous or contradictory requirement
s. Compounding this problem is the absenc
e of formal abstract
ions. A civil, mechanical engineer has a plan, elevation, sectio
ns to refer to and these
 make good sense to both the author and reader of these abstractions. Ho
wever, while (E-R) or object diagrams, process flow diagrams, data flow diagrams are abstractions
 that have been used and built on, many of these are not universally used or practiced. B
esides, considerable effort go
es into repairing and
 enhancing existing systems. Engine
ering required here is a mix of reverse and forward engineering in the sense that requir
ements definitions refer to a set of circumstances that already exist and th
ese circumstances have to be stated in unambiguous terms as well. Perhaps, lack of
 universally accepted abstractions m
ake life difficult for software engineers and some people have even argued that softwar
e production process is closer t
o art rather than engineering! Of late, people have started using prototypes in various degrees of
 working. Screen shots and report layouts are non working prototypes and form the basi
c level of prototyping and increasing sophistication is built in wherever possible. Ma
king prototypes is always more time consuming than not making one. Thu
s, this practice is not always utilised. The role of analyst can b
e fulfilled typically by three types of people. A technical project manager, a software engineer, or
 a dedicated analyst. In some organizations it is unthin
kable to engineers t
hat they would serve the analyst role, as they are "technical" a
nd would consider dealing directly with the customer unthinkab
le. This is purely a cultural stance that vari
es between companies and organizat
ions. It is also quite common for software engineers to work closely with the bus
iness people and customers associa
ted with a project, and this programmer/analyst role can be quite beneficial to the proje
cts success rate. As you are gathering requirements, you can subject them to analysis. Do
es the requirement in question 
conflict with others? What is its priority? Where did it c
ome from? Does it need further clarification? Analysis is ability to draw inferences f
rom requirements and represent them in a structured way. Structures themselves ma
y vary based on what is being analysed. It is very tough to draw boundaries between analy
sis and requirements gathering as they both use the same abstractions many a time. One co
uld argue that analysis yields data storage structures and workflow structures etc. How
ever, one would think that these are not the only outputs from analysis. The common technique that
 means the software requirement analysis begins with communication between two or more p
arties. Review of a software requirement
 specification is conduc
ted by both software developer and customer
. Because the specificat
ion forms the foundation for design and subsequent software
 engineering activities, extreme c
are should be taken in conducting the review.
 The review is first conducted at a macroscopic level. 
At this level, the reviewers attempt to ensure that the specification is complete, 
consistent and accurate. Once the review is complete a software requi
rement specification is signed off, “b
y both customers and developer”. While requirement analysis phase some pr
oblems are come. The problems are identified and defined and listed 
here. • The problem occurs that did exist in smaller syste
ms, which leads to a redefining of
 priority of the activities that go into developing software. • In the begi
nning of the requirements phase, the needs of clients are in
 the minds of various people in the client organization. • The major rol
e of the problem statement is that the customer has a pro
blem that may be responsible to a computer-based solution. A developer responds to the cust
omer’s request for help. Here the one more problem is the path from communication to un
derstanding is often full of difficu
lties. The above case study/problem
 determined while requirement 
analyzing phase in "system engineeri
ng". This page can be improved soon. --Ananthakumar Selvaraj (discuss • c
ontribs) 13:02, 18 March 2013 (UTC) Once the vision and scope of
 a engineering project has been established the requirements ga
ther process begins. One tool for communicating between the customer, analyst, developers, a
nd testers is a set of Use Cases. A Use Case typically has a 
name, a short description, and
 then a number set of steps which a user would go through to accomplish a task. Use cases are somet
imes grouped together in a UML or
 other format of diagram depicting us
ers, the system, external entity and sp
ecific use cases. Use Cases are typically coarse-grained and don't dive into every detail and f
unctional requirement of the 
system. A business per
son or software engineer should be able to read through all of th
e use cases and get an idea of the entire scope of what the project will deliver. Formality of Use 
CasesEdit Agile driven projects may skip the
se cases, or at least only record 
the attributes discussed above. Plan driven methodologies may give additional attributes to Use
 Cases such as alternative paths after covering the main steps, trace requirements covered 
by the use case back to their source, and have an
 error handling section for each use case. THE STAGES OF ANALYSI
S Analysis is typically accomplished in two stages. The first stage, Business A
nalysis includes an in-depth examination of th
e customer's present set of b
usiness or manufacturing processes and procedures with an eye toward how they might be 
improved by automation. The second stage, Systems Analysis consis
ts of an examination of the proposed improvements and a recommen
dation on what computer environment and software technol
ogy is best suited to accomplish those improvements. BUSINESS ANALYSIS STAGE From the 
Business Analyst's in-depth understanding of the customer's present environment, he or she crea
tes a set of "business use-cases", which are short descriptions of t
he role that each of the business's "actors" perform within each process or procedure.
 For instance, the waiter in a restaura
nt might have a use case a
s follows: " A. Actor appr
oaches customer table, introduces self and
 recites a descripti
on of the day's specials. B. Actor presents a beverage menu and inquires if customer would like to
 order a beverage. C. If yes, actor writes each customer
's order on a drink tag and proceeds to bar area. D. Actor presents the tag to bar-ke
ep and makes a mental note to check back within 
a customary time to see if the drink order is complete. E. If no, Actor presents a dinner
 menu and helps customers to make selections. As each new
 party of customers is seated, actor repeats pr
ocedure, beginning from step A." With a set of raw use-cases like the proceeding, the business analy
st can, with the customer's collaboration, examine how each use-case might
 be automated and can thereby define an official system req
uirement which becomes one of maybe hundreds of requirements that define the future
 software application. As might be surmised, the effective
 Business Analyst must not only have extensive experience with and knowledge of the busines
s world, but must also have expertise in the potentialities offered by modern software syste
ms and how those systems map to the reality of 
the business world. SYSTEMS ANALYSIS STAGE The second stage of the analysis process, System
s Analysis begins from the foundation laid by the business analyst. From the set of b
usiness use cases and their resultant software requirements, t
he Systems Analyst makes r
ecommendations as to the most suitable software techno
logy to accomplish those requirements. In some cases, the hardwa
re environment limits choices of software technologies. For instanc
e, in the restaurant scenario, above. T
he customer might be adamant about providing the waiter with a handheld device to repla
ce the drink tag and to make the trip to the bar unnecessary before the drink order is ready to s
erve. In such a case, the systems analyst might be constrained t
o using only those operating systems and APIs that
 are supported on the preferred handheld device. Once the programming an
d run-time environment is decided, then the systems ana
lyst can begin turning the business use-cases and requirements into a set of "
system use-cases," which are descriptions of how the actor
s will interact with the proposed system.
 Those system use-cases, taken together now comprise the actua
l blueprint that will be used by software architects to begin laying out the classes or other s
oftware modules that will define a
 road map for the software coding and development process which follows. Sp
ecification is the task of precisely de
scribing the software to be written, in a mathematically r
igorous way. In reality, most succes
sful specifications are written to understand and fine-tune applications t
hat were already well-developed. S
pecifications are the most 
important for external interfaces
 that must remain stable. Once you have gathered re
quirements, captured them into a specif
ication, and the customer agrees with it, it is possible to take a snapshot or ba
seline of the project requirements. This al
lows one to manage existing requirements and process new incomi
ng ones. The specification is placed under configuration management, such as 
a tool like CVS so that the requirements can be versioned and tracked. It is important to reject re
quirements that - Don't fit within the project scope -
 Cannot show a positive return on investment - Won't make the system competitive -
 Aren't technically feasible A requirement rejected doesn
't have to be further analyzed, implemented, documented, or tested. Every requirement costs the 
company and must be thought through. Regardless of whether your methodology is agile
 or plan driven, you should create some form of change control to p
rocess new requirements. Failure to do so may le
ad to project failure due to scope creep, project overruns, poor qu
ality, or high costs. Change control can be 
as simple as a development manager reviewing specification, to a
n elaborate tool suppo
rted process with forms 
and a board of people with change control authority. L
ack of communication about changes to a specification can lead to costly waste
d work by developers, testers, or analysts. The time it takes to change one requirement in a sp
ecification, may cost 1
00 times the person hours to realize the decision. Design
 and ArchitectureEdit Design and architecture are the acti
vities involved in specifying how the software will actually work. This phase fr
equently described as being divided into two main phases, which might be described as 
"business design" and "technical design". Business des
ign generally specifies the "why" of the system, indicating how data will 
be used and how it wil
l flow. Technical design generally specifies the "how" of the system, or how its co
mponents will be arranged, what their features will
 be, and what kind of hardware the system will require
. These two phases can often be conducted roughly simultaneously, with business design usually st
arting first and technical design ending last. Of all of the phases, the design
 phase can often consume the most time, and many engineers consider it the 
most important. A poor design can cause the 
failure of a project, even after consi
derable resources are spent during the construction phase of the project
 building it. It is important for the design and architecture of the system to be com
plete enough that it can be validated and then used to
 develop the system. Reducing a design to 
code may be the most obvious part of the software engineering process, but it is not ne
cessarily the largest portion. In fact, many software engin
eers only work on the analysis and design process, then the coding 
work is handed off to computer programmers to implement. This trend is increasing in many 
companies, where software engineers are hired domestically and the implementation i
s out-sourced to a country where programming labor is less expensive. In spite of t
his trend, many software engineers still go through the entire process and do coding as we
ll as design. The purpose of testing is not only to prove that
 the code performs in accordance with the desig
n specifications, but
 to prove that it does not fail when subjected to
 undefined inputs. There are several types of 
testing. Unit testing tests
 one module of code for correct inputs, outputs, and functionality. Sy
stem testing tests all the modules of a software system together. User acceptance testing 
is a form of systems testing to see if not only the system works, but
 it meets the requirements of the business user. Regression testing is testing performed after a
 system change to make sure that all system features are still present aft
er the change. To perform systems and verifications testing, Use cases are developed. These cases d
escribe a user action or a specific fea
ture of the system. These cas
es are very useful during the c
onstruction phase of the system, and are usually specified as a deliverabl
e of the design phase. Th
e use cases are generally gathered into test scripts which describe testing activi
ties in a reproducible way. These scripts may be executed manually by testers, or they may be ex
ecuted by automated testing software. Generally speaking, 
it is an accepted in
dustry practice for system testing and validation to be performed by a s
eparate person, team, or department, or in some cases, by an outside entity. Testing
 is considered a specializ
ed skill, with a skill set that is very different from sys
tem development. It also is generally considered a bad practi
ce for software developers to test their own systems, since they can 
form habits that do not exercise the system thoroughl
y, and because they can frequen
tly test around system failures. There are different kinds of testing suc
h as white box testing or black box testing. 
An important (and often overlooked) task 
is documenting the internal design an
d external functionality of software for th
e purpose of future maintenance and enhancement. Software documentation is important. Without doc
umentation, software can be unusable, because the end us
er does not know how to operate a program. Without documentation, an application can be inco
rrectly installed on a server, causing compo
nents to fail. Documentation is most impo
rtant for external interfaces. There are several means by which soft
ware can be documented, including flow
charts, deployment guides, user's manuals, and maintenance manuals. Development team m
embers may write their own documentation
, or a professional technical writer may write or edit the docum
ents for readability and style. It's important to note that
 testing is or should be done during or at the end of every stage. If this is not do
ne, inputs into the next stage can not be very complete. Documentation may also
 be sketchy or none existent. Maintaining and enhancing software to cope with newly disc
overed problems or new requirements can take far more time than the initial develo
pment of the software. Not on
ly may it be necessary to add 
code that does not fit the origina
l design but just determining how software works at some point after it is c
ompleted may require significant effort by a softwar
e engineer. About 2/3 of all software eng
ineering work is maintenance, but this statistic can be misleading. A small part of that is f
ixing bugs. Most maintenance is extending systems to do new things, which in
 many ways can be considered new work. Similarly, about 2/3 of all civil engineering,
 architecture, and constru
ction work is maintenance in a similar way. Applied So
ftware EngineeringEdit The process of software engineering differs between different s
oftware types. Building a word processor has different requirements and design methods than b
uilding a 3D first person shooter. These sections cover the differences and unique propertie
s of the different software types. SE on Application software
Edit SE on Server SoftwareEdit Software engineering for 
server software is more complex then development for the
 desktop computers. A server is more complex, has more
 requirements and features than an ordinary, consumer system. 
Server software can have client-server as well as central architectu
re. Development and testing
 of server software is also different from the development and testing of the desktop s
oftware. Not every programming language is suitable for 
implementation of ser
ver software. In conclusion, SE on server softw
are requires special methods and processes to successfully compl
ete. The main reason server software is more complex is that communication be
tween 2 computers -- the server and
 the client -- is inherently mo
re complex and prone to failure than communication between parts of a program running on a s
ingle computer. SE on Simul
ationsEdit Scientific and engineering simulationsEdit Designing software for gaming 
simulations can be quite challenging, since it requires a diverse background in so
ftware. For example, a game designer might
 have to write software that simulates physics as well as software
 that renders 3-dimensional images. However, many softw
are engineers in the 
gaming industry are able to
 use 3rd party engines that make their job much easier
. Nonetheless, they must follow the software engineering proc
ess closely, since small issues in the software can make the product fail in the consumer m
arket. Writing software for games is a high-risk industry and only a small percentage of
 games are financially successful. SE on Embedded softwareEdit Software engineers that 
work with embedded comput
er systems need more knowledge of hardware than
 most software engineers
, since embedded systems typically intro
duce more constraints on memory availability and processing power than, s
ay, gaming PCs. Designing software for embedded systems can indeed be challen
ging, since most embedded processors cannot handle the 
overhead produced by compiling high-level languages. This often forces software engineers to
 implement embedded softwar
e, at least partially, in assembly.
Impressionism in Canada with Inés Bonacossa Sunday, January 
27 @ 1:30 $15 Admission | $12 Membe
rs The term “Impressionism” was coined in 1874 when cr
itic Louis Leroy accused Claude Monet’s Impression, Sunrise of being simply a sketch
 (or “impression”, as its title suggests) rather than a finished work. In “The Exhib
ition of the Impressionists”, a particularly biti
ng review of Monet’s painting, Leroy w
rote that “wallpaper in its embryonic state is more labored than this
 seascape”. Impression, Sunrise was part of a Parisian exhibition that displayed the works of ind
ependent French artists, including Edgar Degas, Berthe Morisot
, and Pierre-Auguste Renoir. Despite Leroy’s criticism, “Impressionism” became a fa
vourable term to recognize not only this par
ticular group of artists, but also an artistic style characterized by de
pictions of contemporary life, rapid brushstrokes, bright colours, an
d an emphasis on capturing light. As an artistic movement, Impressionism was not
 restricted to France alone. In fact, it influenced many painters working within C
anada’s art scene an
d generated a distinctly Canadian form of Impressionism i
n the late 19th and early 20th centuries. So how did Impressionism take hold in Ca
nada? How was it received here? And how did Canadian Impressionism distinguis
h itself from its French counterpart? Find out the answers and join in on the discu
ssion this Sunday at “Impressionism
 in Canada”, Dalnavert’s lastest lecture with Inés Bonacossa. Join Inés on a
 journey from the origins of
 Impressionism in France to its development here in Canada and take in plen
ty of beautiful painting
s along the way. For full details on the lecture, visit the event page here. While o
ur lecture doesn’t take place until Sunday, you can get a hea
d start and acquaint yourse
lf with the Impressionists rig
ht now! Below are a few examples of both French and Canadian Impres
sionist paintings. Do you notice any similarities or differences in style betw
een the two groups (ie. lighting, brushstrokes, colour
)? Is the subject matter the same? What makes the Canadian landscape so distinct?
The Validation Rule op
erator evaluates input data against a rul
e. That is, a logical expression checking for particular values, null, not null, and 
so on. The user may define one or more rules and give each rule a meanin
gful name. Input data that evaluate
s to true are sent to the 'pass' 
port, and failing records are similarly sent to the 'fail' port. There is a 'f
ailInformation' port that shows 
the rules that failed and a uniq
ue ID for those records. The 'outError' port receives messages to help di
agnose problems, such as corrupt input stream characters. C
onfigure and Run the Graph - Click the Validation Rule 
Demo icon to load the sample grap
h. Notice the Validation Rule operator has four output port
s (described above) atta
ched to four Terminal oper
ators. - In the toolbar, select 
Run (play button). The Status panel indicates whether the graph
 is running. - To view the passing records, click the Pass Output terminal, and then select Ope
n UI. - To view the failin
g records, click the Fail Output terminal, and 
then select Open UI. - To view the failure information, click the Fail Info
 Output terminal, and then select Open UI
. - To view any error message
s, click the Error Outpu
t terminal, and then select Open UI. For this example graph, there will 
be no errors. Rules and Substitution Values Explai
ned - The input data generated by the Data
 Generator has four columns: ID, Name, Title, and Salary. The Name, Title, and Sala
ry values are randomly selected, and the
 Title field has the possibility of having a null value. - Click the Validation Rule operato
r and select Open Configur
ation. The configuration value
s are shown in the right pane. - Click on the Rules *
 option. The rule "Title is NOT NULL" is By default, this means that reco
rds with the Title value 
of NOT NULL are sent to the 'pa
ss' port, and records with a Title value of null, are sent to the 'fail' port. Thi
s behavior is controlled by the 'Fail Action' set
ting, which has a FAIL default value. - But for this example, notice that 'Fail Action' is 
set to BOTH. This instructs the Validation Rule operator to send records that fail the rule to bot
h the 'pass' port and ALSO the 'fail' po
rt. Why would you do this? - You can provide a substitution value to update or correct the fai
led records. - The substitution value "fixes" the aspects of a record that failed the rule and al
l the records are sent to one port. The records are output in the same order from the in
put source, even for the records
 that have the substit
ution value included. - 
Click the Substitutions opt
ion. The substitution "Title - 'Intern'
" - Because the substitution is defined as 'Intern', 
any records that fail AND 
are sent to the 'pass' port have the Title column updated with the value of 
'Intern'. Those records that go the 'fail' port do not have the Title column updat
ed, and remain null. Input data (ID, Name, Title, Salary), 3 records - Notice that record
 2 has a null Title 1,Ben,Software Engineer,60543.45 2,Drew,,0.0 3,Glenn,CEO,123054.34 Receive
s all input records (passing and failing records). Notice the faile
d record (#2) received the substitution value of 'Intern' for the Title col
umn. Substitution action o
nly occurs to records that fail a rule AND are sent to the 'pa
ss' port. 1,Ben,Software Engineer,60543.45 2,Drew,Intern,0.0 3,Glenn,CEO,123054.34 
Receives the one record that failed the rule. Notice the 'B' indicating record was sent to
 BOTH the 'pass' and 'fail' ports. Fa
iled rules are shown with a unique identifier.
 2,Drew,,0.0,B,Failed rules(s): Title,1.0 - Receives information on failed records: unique ID, r
ule name, and column
By Samuel Rajzman Samuel Rajzman 
is one of the very few surv
ivors of the Treblinka death camp - he was lucky eno
ugh to escape. The testimony he gave, more than
 60 years ago, is still important to understand the enormity of the crimes committ
ed in that death camp and in the Final Solution. Before the war he was empl
oyed in the Miedzyrzecki
 Overseas Import & Export Company in Warsaw. 
His account, given before the American House Committee on Foreign Affairs in 1945, follows. In J
une 1942 placards be
aring the following notice were posted on the walls of Warsaw: "Persons not emplo
yed in a German firm or 
the Jewish Community Administration are subject to immediate deportation from the ghetto; the able
-bodied will be given employment." About the place of 
deportation, nothing was known except that it was in the east. Next
 to the new posters there immediately appeared "Help wanted" adver
tisements of German firms. The factories, stores, and workshops o
wned by the Jews had been turned ove
r to German administrators; thus a great number of new German firms had bee
n created. People paid fantastic sums (from five to 
twenty thousand zlotys, $1,000 to $4,000 per person) to find employment in a German firm and
 thus escape deportation. Those who still had any
thing to sell converted it into cash. But those who had no funds were doomed
. The day after this announcement it became known that Engineer Czernia
cow, president of the Jewish Community, had comm
itted suicide. This reports spr
ead panic among the inhabi
tants of the ghetto. They knew that the German ord
er concerning deportation had cause
d his suicide, but i
t was not clear why; all kinds of conjectures were advanced
 in explanation, but although the event boded no good, not even the wo
rst pessimists had any idea what was really in store for the Polish Jews. Next day the ghetto was 
surrounded by patrols posted at short intervals; these prevented anyone from leaving or en
tering the ghetto, even Gentiles who possessed special passes entitl
ing them to circulate freely in the Jewish quarter
. The ghetto now became a real inferno. Processions of carts loaded with little 
children from orphanages and charity homes passed along the streets. These frightening and trembl
ing mites were being deported; they did not know that 
never again would they see the 
city where they had been born and brought up. Behind the children's carts walked inmates
 from old peoples' homes, aged men and women tottering on their feet, who we
re forbidden to end their lives in their
 own city. The Elite Guards escorted the processio
ns. Then the Germans
 began to check the documents of the remaining inhabitants. Soldiers swarmed e
verywhere in the streets and houses, they searched cellars and attics, an
d asked everyone to show his identification papers. Those who could not prove that they were e
mployed in a German firm were taken to the square where the d
eportees were rounded up. These manhunt
s results in many victim
s. The slightest gestures of disobedienc
e, the slightest hesitation before showing one's papers, a s
mile that the Germans did not find sufficiently pleasant, meant death on the spot. People w
ere killed in their homes, in their court yards, in the streets. In the end many preferred bei
ng deported to having their papers checked. The deportees were crowded into trains, at first at the
 rate of six to eight thousand a day: subseque
ntly the average daily contingent 
was 20,000. Several weeks later it became known 
that the Germans had murdered all the old people and child
ren, and that the able-bodied had allegedly b
een taken deep into Russia. The news of the murder of the old folks and children aroused those 
who remained to desperate thoughts about countermeasures. When the Germans realized this, they fo
rced the deportees to send letters t
o their families informing them that they were alive and that all was well with them. T
he purpose of these letters, which th
e Nazis frightened the deportees into writing before killing them, was to p
revent further rumors. Under the t
hreat of death people wrote to relatives whom they were never to see again. This even took plac
e on the square where the victims were gathered. In the terrible ordea
l of the ghetto, children were tak
en from their mothers, people were bea
ten and murdered for no reason at
 all, those who ventured into 
the streets did not return. By September, only 150,000 Jews of the original 600,000 remained
 in the Jewish community. However, it was impossible to obtain 
exact information on their condition because the ghetto was deserte
d; the employees of the German firms were now its 
only inhabitants. After a short respite, on September 7, 1942, if I remember cor
rectly, new placards announced that all the remaining inhab
itants of the ghetto must report to the assembly place of Mila, Nizka, an
d Dzika Streets at 8 a.m. to have their identification papers checked. The horrible scene pr
esented by this migration of 150,000 people with bundles 
on their backs can be imagined. Crowds o
f Jews filled the narrow streets within 
a few hours. At exactly 8 a.m. cordons of troops barred all the exits to the above-name
d streets, those who were found
 in the ghetto beyond these streets w
ere shot on the spot. Several hours later a group of Elite Guards at one of t
he designated corners began to inspect th
e people. The Jews fil
ed by these thugs in
 groups of four. The latter did not check any papers at all, but directed thei
r victims as they pleased: To the 
right, which meant back to town, or to the left, which meant to the
 station for deportation. During 
this review anyone who failed to realize f
ast enough in what direction
 he was supposed to move was killed. The fate of 
those who held or led children had been de
termined in advance, they had to go to the left. The writer of this account wal
ked with his wife and two c
ousins, and, without a word of farewell, was forced to 
turn to the right, while his wife and cousins were sent to 
the left. After this selection, from fifty to sixty thousand Jews remained in the ghetto locke
d up in workshops. A small number of mothers succeeded in smuggling their children past t
he guards, some women had the idea of chloroforming their babies and
 putting them in their bundles, thus they passed the inspection. 
The writer witnessed the following scene: One mothe
r had chloroformed her 11-month-old baby b
ut, just as she was being directed to the right side, the baby awok
e and suddenly began to wail in its sack. One Elite Guard pierced the baby with his bayonet throu
gh the sack. Then he returned the sack to the mother and ordered her to go leftward. A few moments 
later a shot resounded and the mother with her sack collapsed o
n the pavement. During deportation we tried in vain to find out where and for what purpose all t
hese people were being sent away, but the German
 machine worked flawlessly:
 no one learned what happened to the victims. On September 17 the owner of the factory
 in which I worked, W.C. Tobbens, announced that all the
 workers were to gather in the yard to have their papers checked. 
He gave us his word of honor that after this inspection we would be sent back to our machines. In 
the yard five troopers were waiting for us; they took us to the train. From 80 to 90 pe
ople were crowded into 1 cattle car. After 12 hours of maneuvering on the tracks, the train 
left in the direction of Treblinka. The passeng
ers fainted from thirst, hunger, and lack of air. Fifteen hours later the
 train stopped at Tluszoz, and 5 hours after that at Treblinka. In our car, 5 women and 2 men had s
uffocated. The train went up on a sidetra
ck. The train was surrounded by barbed wire entanglements on all sides. We were led out 
of the train to a nearby square enclosed b
y a high fence made of pine and fir branches. The
 passengers who arrived on the train could not see what went on beh
ind the fence. On the square
 the whole transport was divided; the women were directed to the barracks on
 the left, the men to the one on the right. Everyone was ordered to undress completely and to depo
sit all valuables and money in a special place;
 these were to be retuned afte
r the bath. While undressing I saw Engineer Galewski, of Warsaw, a 
friend of mine, among the workers. Galewski asked one 
of the Elite Guards to ass
ign me to the worker's brigade. I wa
s told to dress and was placed in a group employed in carrying bundles of clothing from th
is square to the storehouses. I never saw my traveling compa
nions again. After a few minutes I understood everything. I fel
t resentment against Galewski, due to whose intervention I was still
 alive. Carrying extremely heavy bundles, we had to
 run the gantlet [sic] between lined-up overseers who beat anyone they could lay their ha
nds on with heavy sticks. All those who carried bundles had swollen faces. By noon no one 
who knew me would have recognized me, for my face had 
become a bluish mass, my eyes were bloodshot. During the pause for lunch I complained to my f
riend and reproached him for having s
aved me. His answer was unexpected: "I did not save you to keep you alive," he 
whispered, "but to sell your life at a higher price.
 You are now a member of a secret organization that is planning an uprising, and you must live
." The camp of Treblinka occupied a clearing 1 mile square, surrounded by woods and situatio
n about a mile and a half from the railway station of Treblinka, on the line Malkinia-Siedlece. Be
ginning in May 1942 every day, with only brief in
terruptions, trains bringing Jews to Treblinka arrived from all over Poland, Russia, C
zechoslovakia, Germany, Bulgaria, and Greece. On the average, 3 to 4 trains of 60 cars arrived eve
ry day; each car containing 80 to 150 people. The trains traveled along a siding to the entrance
 gate, where the train escort got off and a camp escort received the depo
rtees. Soldiers from o
utside were forbidden to cross the camp grounds. Precautions to insure secrecy went
 so far that an electric si
ren was placed on the main observation tower, to 
signal any German plane that approache
d to change its course. 
No plane ever flew over the camp. The whole s
tation was camouflaged in the must cunning fashion. Thus, the large barracks adjoi
ning the platform, which served as the main storehouse for the stolen clothes,
 was covered with timetables of trains that allegedly came to Treblink
a Station (some months later, when
 Treblinka had become famous, 
the name of the station was changed to Ober-Majdan). Then one saw a huge signpost bear th
e inscription: "To Bialystock and Baranowicze", such signs as "Tickets" and "Stationmaster," and f
inally an enormous painted arrow with the words: "Change for east-bound trains." There was also a l
arge station clock. Inside these barracks there was nothing but clothes, shoes, and rags
, but incoming people had the impression that they were really at a junction, where they would 
change to another train going still further east. Near the platform there w
as a stout fence about 9 feet high with a gate through which the 
newly arrived were drive in to a huge square. 
Their disappointment and surprise were overwhelming: instead of a j
unction, they were in a huge concentration cam
p. On both sides of the square there were barr
acks and enormous piles, somet
imes 9 feet high, of clo
thing and shoes. One could hear the rattle of ex
cavators, and the air was permeated with the odor of corpses. On the square men were at once
 separated from women and told to undress and deposit their papers and valuables
. The most heart-rending scenes took place in the winter when women were c
ompelled to strip their children at temperatures of 20-3
0º below zero in the yard or in open barracks, whose walls were of thin
 plywood. The unfortunate creatures had nervous shocks, cried and la
ughed alternately, then wept 
desperately while standing on line in the cold, thei
r babies pressed close to their breasts. The hangman lashed their naked bodies to force them i
nto silence. The naked 
women were then taken care of by barbers. Every
 woman was shaved to the skin with a clipper, then sent to the bath establis
hment, which consisted of 10 cabins with room for 700 to 800 persons each. In the
se cabins there were even towels and rules posted. 
Once the people were inside, the cabins were hermetically sealed, and the air 
pumped out with machine (poison gas was u
sed later). Thus the 
victims were suffocated to death. They remained i
n the cabins for 10 to 20 minutes; the 
large number of others waiting in line for the "bath" made it impossible for the Germans to l
eave them there any longer
. Later the bodies of th
e suffocated were thrown on an open oven to be burned; frequently the victims gave signs of l
ife after being thrown into the flames, but to this the German guard did not 
react at all. Before the corpses were burned, a group of dentists verifi
ed whether they had any gold teeth, for these were torn out of the bodie
s. The oven consisted of an enormous ditch with a concrete foundation and a grate made o
f rails. Under the grate a strong fire blazed continually, fed by some special fuel. The wo
rkers from the transports arrived daily. As a reward for working 1 day, they w
ere not sent to the cabins, but were killed by a bullet in the
 back of the head. Death by shooting was really a 
great privilege. Because little children at their 
mothers' breasts were a great nui
sance during the shaving procedure, later the system was modified and babies were taken from their
 mothers as soon as they got off the train. The children were taken to 
an enormous ditch; wh
en a large number of them
 were gathered together they were killed by firearms and thrown into the fire. When
 mothers succeeded in keeping their babie
s with them and this fact interfered wit
h the shaving, a German guard took the ba
by by its legs and smashed it against the wall of the barracks until only
 a bloody mass remained in his hands. The unfortunate mother had to take this mass with 
her to the "bath." Only those who saw these things with their own eyes wi
ll believe with what delight the Germans performed these operations; how 
glad they were when they succeeded in killing a child with only three o
r four blows; with what satisfaction they pus
hed the baby's corpse into the mother's arms. The invalids, crippled, 
and aged who could not move fast were put to death in the same way as the child
ren. The ditch into which the children and infirm were slaughtered an
d burned was called in German the "Lazarett" "infirmary," and th
e workers employed in it wore armbands with
 the Red Cross sign. T
he Germans boasted that the "infirmary radically cured all diseases"
. Our guards were especially pleased when they succeeded in deceiving and making mockery of the 
deportees from abroad, especially those who were prominent in
 any way. For instance, one day a transport of deportees came from Germany,
 Austria, and Czechoslovakia. None of the new arrivals
 had any idea of what was in store for h
im, all were convinced that they were to be settled here to 
work. An old man, a prominent surgeon from Vienna, came out and explained to the Hauptsturmfurer 
[sic] that he had brought with him a whole carload of special apparatu
s and surgical instruments. He asked that the workers kindly be 
instructed to take care when unloading these tools because now, dur
ing the war, it was imp
ossible to have them repaired should they be damaged. The Hauptsturmfurer [sic] a
ssured him very seriously that the instruments would
 not be unloaded until the professor returned from his bath and that he
 himself could supervise their transportation to the professor's apartment. I
t goes without saying that the sur
geon never returned from the "bath." On another occ
asion an old lady of aristocratic appearance approached 
Untersturmfürer Franz, the worst hangman, and showed him her papers which indicated that she
 was a relative of the famous Siegmund [sic] Freud, of Vienna. She asked him to assign her to cler
ical work, since her age did
 not permit her to do any heavy work. Franz carefully verified her papers and told her to reports to
 the main office of the camp immediately after her b
ath, where he would have
 a pass prepared for her to return to Vienna the same day. The lady thanked him graciously, undres
sed, and happily went off to the bath cabin. Stil
l another example of brutality: An elderly deportee from Warsaw recogni
zed in the Hauptsturmführer a friend of his whom he had o
ften met at international conferences abroad. The German official took him to the office (t
he only case when a Jew entered there), and an hour later one c
ould see him walking toward the courtyard accompanied by the Hauptsturmführer's frie
nd. ----- was in the oven. The workers in the camp were divide
d as follows: Group I: Classifying the new articles, carrying clothes and bagga
ge to storerooms. Group II: Sorting stolen clothes and loading them on c
ars going to Germany. Group III: Sorting, pa
cking, and counting money, foreign exchange, gold, and valuables. Group IV: Crafts, suc
h as shoemakers, tailors, carpenters, masons, locksmiths, etc., who worked
 in shops. Group V: Barbers. Group VI
: Dentists. Group VII: Porters to carry corpses to the oven. Groups I to V wer
e strictly separated from groups VI and VII; even the slightest communication with 
them was made very difficult in order to prevent the crews that did not wor
k directly in the cabins from leaning how the mass murder was 
being carried out. The workers of group VII were changed every few day
s. The other groups were in pri
nciple steady, but actually th
e life of every "steady" worker depended upon the
 moods of the guards, and these wanted only blood. There were thousands of pre
texts for killing. If a piece of bread coming from an outside
 bakery was discovered on a worker the penalty was dea
th. Death was meted out for not carefully re
moving the Jewish insignia from clothes of the murdered. Deat
h for having kept a coin or a wedding ring, the last r
elic of the worker's murdered wife. The methods of execution were the following: (1) lashin
g to death while cold water was constan
tly poured on the victim; (2) hanging on gallows by the feet; (3) 
tearing to pieces by dogs (Franz's favorite amusement); (4) the mildest form of death, yearned fo
r by everyone -- shooting. For drinking water during work, smoking a cigarette, im
proper saluting, and similar offenses, the penalties were f
rom fifty to one hundred lashes on the bare body, but usuall
y the worker was finished after fifty lashes, and if several pails of w
ater did not bring him to, he was thrown on the fire. A
s a result of starvation and living in cold barracks du
ring the winter of 1942-43, an epidem
ic of typhus broke out. A special office was set up
, called the Krankenstube (sickroom). But when a worker with a temperature of 102 repor
ted to the physician and the physician recommended tha
t he be put to bed in the Krankenstube, there appeared Unterscharfurer [sic] Mieta [sic]
, whose specialty and favorite pastime was the "selection" of workers. Five minutes late
r the patient was taken to the "infirmary" whe
re he was cured by a bullet. In the last weeks of my stay in the camp, 
the Jewish physician succeeded in obtaining soporifics which were injected in
to each patient before he was executed; he was ta
ken to the "infirmary"
 only after he had fallen asleep. Dramatic scenes 
took place during the giving of injections
, for sometimes other injections were given, to strengthen the heart, fo
r instance. Before taking an injection the worker always sai
d farewell to his comrades because he suspected that the inje
ction would put him to sleep, after which he would be sent to the "infirmar
y." It also happened that a typhus patient was sometimes giv
en an injection by order of Miete. Miete would ask the doctor when the patient would be
 asleep. The physician would answer, "In 20 min
utes." Twenty minutes later stretcher bearers led by Miete would app
ear, to find the patient eating his ration of black bread with a healthy appetite. Conster
nation all around, but his excellency, Elite Guard Miet
e must not fatigue himself for nothing; he would order the patient to be put on the stretcher and t
aken to the infirmary in spite of his obviou
s recover. In vain would the patient weep and protest that he was now completely well. 
Five minutes later one would hear a shot. If so, the worke
r was fortunate: For having disappointed Miete he mi
ght have been hung by his feet, but all he had got was a bullet. How "steady" these 
workers' crews were is best illustrated by the fact that 80,000
 workers passed through the camp, while a maximum of 700 were employe
d at one time. These are the names of some of the han
gmen in the camp: The deputy c
ommandant, Kurt Franz; chief of the guards, Obersharfurer [sic
] Kittner; chief of the cemetery, Unterscharführer Floss; depu
ty chief of the guards, Untersch
arführer Emil Miete. There were also 36 other Unterscharführers. Among the first six groups there w
as a conspiratorial committee who ta
sk was to avenge at least to some extent the millions 
of innocent people executed. They dreamed of setti
ng fire to the whole camp and exterminating at least the cruelest engines at the price of their ow
n lives. The work of organization was diff
icult, because the Germans had several stool pi
geons among the workers,
 and all our moves had to be most carefully guarded. Finally
 it was decided that the only practical plan was to get ammunition and arms from the camp's arsenal
. Luck favored us, for a few days after this resol
ution was taken, one of the Jewish locksm
iths was sent to repair the lock of the armored door of the arsenal, which was out
 of order. The locksmith took an imprint of the k
ey, and after 4 months' work another key was ready.
 Three combat units were then organized, and our leader, Dr. Julian Chorazyski, a former captain i
n the Polish Army, worked out a detailed plan of action. Th
e coup was to take place on April 21, 1943. Unfortunately, on April 
19, Dr. Chorazyski failed to give a proper salute to 
Untersturmführer Franz, who struck him in the face with his ri
ding crop. In his excite
ment Dr. Chorazycki [sic] reached for his knife and was about to strike. Franz
 jumped out of the window shouting that Chorazycki must be taken alive.
 He was foiled in this des
ign: the doctor had time
 to take poison. After Chorazycki's death 
our plan had to be postpone
d for several months because we had no qualified leader
, and none of us wanted to take moral responsibility for an unsuccessful coup. On May 1, 1943, D
r. Lecher, a physician from Wegrow, came to our camp. He was also a former Polish
 officer, and after a few days in camp he agreed
 to take the leadership of our group. We waited for an opportune moment to get i
nto the arsenal. On August 2, 1943, while a large group of mason
s were working nearby, we f
inally managed to open it.
 Thus we were able to get one of our comrades into the building and lock him up there. One o
f the Unterscharführ
ers lived in a room adjoining the arsenal, and at that moment he happened to 
be in his quarters. The slightest rustle in the stacks of
 weapons could have betrayed us. For that reason we delegated Engineer Sudowicz o
f Czestochowa to go to this unters
charfurer, with whom he had good relat
ions, and under some pretext lure him out of his room
. At the same time, we cut a pane out of a window opposite the door at a spot that was unguarded.
 Outside the arsenal there wa
s a pile of debris and bricks. A cart driv
en by a member of our group drove up to t
he building ostensibly to remove th
e debris. Under it 20 hand grenades, 20 rifles, and several revolvers w
ith cartridges were load
ed. All this was taken to the ditch where lime and gravel were kept for construction 
work, and divided among the combat units. The disinfector of the c
amp belonged to one of these units. His work in 
the camp consisted in walking around with a sprinkler full of 
disinfectant. We had got some gasoline from trucks and tanks in th
e garage through one of our comrades, 
a mechanic from Czestochova [sic]. On the day of the coup this gas
oline was poured into his apparatus instead of disinfectant, and he sprinkled it liberally accor
ding to our leader's
 instructions. Curio
usly enough, the "disinfection" of one of our objectives took 
place in the presence of one of the unterscharfurers, who did not notice anything. At 3:45 
p.m. we heard the signal -- a rifleshot near the gates of the Jewish barracks. This shot was fo
llowed by the detonations of hand grenades hurled at pr
eviously "disinfected" objects. An
 enormous fire broke out in
 the whole camp. The arse
nal exploded and everything was burned, except th
e "bath" cabins, because it 
proved absolutely impossible to get near them. The
 victim of the first shot was Obersharführer Kittner, the chief of the guards and t
he leading camp spy. The flames devoured all the storerooms for clothes and shoes. Of the 700 wo
rkers on the camp gro
unds, only 150 to 200 succeeded in escaping; the othe
rs perished in the camp as well as over 20 Germans. Of the 150 to 200 who managed to esc
ape, only 12 are still alive; the others were later murdered by the German hangmen. During the
 last 11 months of its existence the Treblinka camp administration recorded the exact n
umber of deportees brought in 
and the exact amount of goods sent out. The number of Je
ws were: From Germany, about 120,000; from Austria, 40,000; from Poland, 1,500,000; 
from Czechoslovakia, 100,000; from Bulgaria, 1
4,000; from Russia, 1,000,000; total, 2,774,000. In the course of the same 11 months several hundred
 million dollars worth of foreign exchange, gold, and valuables were sent from Treblinka to Ge
rmany through official channels, as well as trunks full of goods which t
he German guards stole and exported for
 themselves. Uprising in Treblinka in U.S. Congress. House C
ommittee on Foreign Affairs. Punishment of war criminals, 120-125. 79th Cong., 1st 
sess. Washington, D.C.: GPO, 1945.
A yellowish/orange pigment associated with fall leaf
 colors. Carotenes are present in lesser amounts than the other yellow p
igment - xanthophyll. Like xanthophyll, carotenes are present throughout the growing seaso
n, but masked by the chlorophyll (green) pigment. See: A
nthocyanin; Xanthophyll; Tannin; Chlorop
hyll Articles in this collection were copyrighted 1995 by
 the Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois
. For full copyright information about the articles in this encyclopedia, click here.
Where the Spirit is in the Water! UNLIKE THE RIVER I AM THE SEA IF YOU LOOK CLOSELY YOU WILL AL
WAYS SEE ME! Join the warm and friendly people of the Sea Islands Black Heri
tage Festival (many people, many islands)! Hold the ha
nds of love around the glob
e! The wisdom, beauty, fortitude of our 
ancestors, a proud and brilliant people, left an indelible herit
age in the universe from Af
rica to the Caribbean, Mexico to Central America, the coast of North
 America to the lands of South America, and throu
ghout the world. The African struggle for self-determination over the centuries 
uniquely developed communiti
es of cultures that helped in every aspect
 to define the world. We celebrate and honor our ancestors, our ESTEEMED KIN! Howard Dod
son reminds us that it was the peopling of the Americas with
 Africans, who formed much of the human foundation 
on which the Americas were built, and whose presence and activities were of ke
y importance during the formative period of the new nations. In the necessary process
 of re-creating themselves in their new milieu, these Diaspora
n Africans invented and participated in
 the inventing of new cultural forms such as languages, religions, foods, aesthetic 
expressions, and political and social organizations. Economic historian Joseph Inikor
i in agreement with Dodson and using quantitative data to support his contention
s, states that for the three and a half centuries between 1500 and 1850, it was t
he labor of African peoples enslaved in 
the Americas that was at the center
 of the economic development of the Atlantic world. During this period, large-scale commodity produ
ction in the Americas transformed the Atlantic Ocean into the busiest trading mart in th
e world, with trade among Europe
an countries depending heavily on American products. It was the forced migration
 of Africans to the Americas through the slave trade and the f
orced labor of their descendants in th
e Americas through the plantation system that made this large-scale
 production possible and profitable. Inikori states that, "Accordi
ng to recent estimates, 75 percent of the American prod
ucts traded during the period were produced by Africans and their descendants in the Am
ericas." Howard Dodson, Former Chief of the Schomburg Center for Research in 
Black Culture of the New York Public Library Joseph E. Inikori, Ph.D., Professor, 
History Department, University of Rochester CEDRICK FRASIER, 
ANGELA LINDSAY GUEST PE
RFORMERS: (In Alphabetical Order) EUGENE ARMSTRONG Drumming for 
Universal Love TRAVIS BROWN Remembers John Coltrane, Dexter Gordon ROSLYN BURROUGH Remembers Sara
h Vaughan CHOSEN VESSEL Spirit Dance COASTAL Y
OUTH THEATRE OF VOICES Remembers The Underground Railroad KAREN DANIELS Jazz Flutist GA GEECHEE GU
LLAH RING SHOUTERS , Storytellers Telling Lives of the A
ncient TRAE HICKS & FAMILY The Steel
 Guitar Remembers Michael Jackson and Frankie Lymon JA
MIAH HUDSON Sings Etta James, Billie Holiday NATALIE
 MOORE Sings Marian Anderson SHERYL RENEE Si
ngs Musical Legends SMOOTH JOURNEY BAND Forever Jazz G
ARY SWINDELL Sings and Plays the Blues VICTORIA WARD Love is Whit
ney Houston
- Open Access Molecular detect
ion of Rickettsia species in ticks collected from the southwestern provinces of the Republic of Kore
a Parasites & Vectors volume 10, Article number: 20 (2017) Rickettsiae constitute a group of arth
ropod-borne, Gram-negative, obligate intracellular bacteria
 that are the causative agents of diseases ra
nging from mild to life threatening that impact on medical and veterinar
y health worldwide. A total of 6,484 ticks were collected by tick drag f
rom June-October 2013 in the southwestern p
rovinces of the Republic of Korea (R
OK) (Jeollanam, n = 3,995; Jeol
labuk, n = 680; Chungcheongnam, n = 1,478; and Chungcheongbuk, n = 331). Ticks were sorted into
 311 pools according to species, collection site, and stage of development. DNA prep
arations of tick poo
ls were assayed for rickettsiae by 17 kDa antigen gene and ompA nested PCR (nPCR
) assays and the resulting amplicons sequenced to determine the identity and prevalence of spotted
 fever group rickettsiae (SFGR). Haemaphysalis longicornis (4,471; 52 adults, 123 nymphs a
nd 4,296 larvae) were t
he most commonly collected ticks, followed by Haem
aphysalis flava (1,582; 28 adults, 263 ny
mphs and 1,291 larvae), and Ixodes 
nipponensis (431; 25 adults, 
5 nymphs and 401 larvae). The minimum field infection rate/100 ticks (assuming 1 p
ositive tick/pool) was 0.93% for the 17 kDa antigen gene and 0.82% for the ompA nPCR assays
. The partial 17 kDa antigen and ompA gene sequences from po
sitive pools of H. longicornis were similar to: Ri
ckettsia sp. HI550 (99.
4–100%), Rickettsia sp. FUJ98 (99.3–100%), Rickettsia sp. HIR/D91 (99.3–100%), and R. japo
nica (99.7%). One sequence of the partial 17 kDa antigen gene for H.
 flava was similar to Rickettsia sp. 17kd-005 (99.7%), while seven sequences of
 the 17 kDa antigen gene obtained from I. nipponensis ticks were similar to R.
 monacensis IrR/Munich (98.7–100%) and Rickettsia sp. IRS3 (98.9%). SFG r
ickettsiae were detected in thre
e species of ixodid ticks collected in the sou
thwestern provinces of the ROK during 2013
. A number of rickettsiae ha
ve been recently report
ed from ticks in Korea, some of which were identified as medically important. Resul
ts from this study and pre
vious reports demonstrate the need to conduct longitudin
al investigations to identify tick-borne rickettsiae and 
better understand th
eir geographical distributions and potential impact on medical 
and veterinary health, in addition to risk communication an
d development of rickettsial disease preve
ntion strategies. Rickettsia species are obligat
e intracellular bacteria in the order Rickettsiales that infect a variety of verte
brate hosts, including humans via arthropod vectors . The genus Ricket
tsia has been classified according
 to morphological, antigenic, and metabolic characteristics, but 
now with the availabi
lity of genetic information, new approaches to phylogenetic inferences have provided new 
perspectives on rickettsial classification and evolution. Members of the
 genus Rickettsia are divided into many different phylogenet
ic groups and this progression will continue with additional phylogeny data. 
Currently there exists: (i) the spotted fever group Ri
ckettsia (SFGR) (e.g. Rickettsia conorii, R. rickettsii and R. japon
ica, the causative agents of Mediterranean, Rocky Mountain, and
 Japanese spotted fe
ver, respectively, that are transmitted by ixodid ticks); (ii) the typh
us group (TGR) (e.g.
 R. typhi, the causative agent of murine typhus transmitted by fleas
, and R. prowazekii, the causative agent of epidemic typ
hus transmitted by the body louse); (iii) the transitional group (TRGR) transmitted by fleas, mites
 and ticks; (iv) the R. bellii group (ticks);
 (v) the R. canadensis 
group; (vi) the Helvetica group; (vii) the Scapularis group; (viii) the A
dalia group; and (ix) the Hydra group [1–4]. Ticks, obligate parasites of vertebrates and fou
nd in various natural environments throughout the world, are divid
ed into three families: Ixodidae (hard ticks), Argasid
ae (soft ticks), and Nuttalliellidae (one species in South Africa). Worl
dwide, ixodid ticks (e.g. Haemaphysalis flava, H. longicornis, Ixodes persulcatus and I. nippo
nensis in Asia; I. ricinus in Europe; Rhipicephalus sanguineus, Dermacent
or andersoni, D. variabilis, Amblyomma americanu
m and Am. maculatum in Am
erica) are the primary vectors/reservoirs of a w
ide range of rickettsiae of medical and veterinary importance (e.g. R. japonica, R. ricket
tsii, R. conorii, R. honei, R. sibirica, R. slovaca and R. monacensis) that affect birds, wild a
nd domestic animals, and humans in Japan, Mongolia, South Korea, Russia and China [5–11]
. SFGR were first reported in Korea based on serological analysis of acute febrile patients [12, 1
3]. The first case of Japanese spotted fever and isolation of S
FGR from a patient in Korea was reported in 2005 . T
hese serological positive sera were assessed by molecular methods based on sequences of the 
ompB gene by nested PCR (nPCR
) demonstrated similarities to R. conorii, R. akari, R. japonica a
nd R. sibirica. Haemaphysalis longicornis ticks from Chungju Province were positive for R. japo
nica using PCR analysis and sequencing of the groEL gene . Moreover, R. ja
ponica and R. monacensis were detected in H. longicornis by nPCR an
d sequence analysis of the gltA, ompB
, and 17 kDa antigen genes [16, 17]. More recently, Rickettsia species have been detected i
n various arthropods and tick species in Korea that were collected from small mamm
als, reptiles, and the environment (by tick drag) [10, 18–20]. The purpose of 
this study was to identify the presence and prevalence of Rickettsia spe
cies in ticks collected from the southwestern provinces (Jeollanam, Jeol
labuk, Chungcheongbuk and Chun
gcheongnam) of Korea during 2013 to identify and g
enetically characterize the rickettsiae based on sequence analysis of the pa
rtial 17 kDa antigen and ompA genes. A tota
l of 6,484 unengorged ticks (adults, nymphs and larvae) wer
e collected by tick drags when ticks were active during June-October from the southwestern pr
ovinces (Jeollanam, Jeollabuk, Chungcheongnam and Chungcheongbuk) of Kore
a in 2013 as described by Chong et al. [21, 22]. Ticks were identified to sp
ecies level using morphological keys [23, 24] an
d placed in 2 ml cryovials ac
cording to collection date, species and stage of development (n = 6,484; 311 pools of 1–5 ad
ults, 1–25 nymphs, and 1–69 larvae) (Table 1) . Ticks were washed in 70% ethanol,
 rinsed twice with sterile PBS, and then homogenized in 600 μl of PBS and stored at -70 °C unt
il used for DNA extraction. DNA was extracted from 
200 μl of tick suspension using the G-spin total DNA extraction kit (iNtRON, Gyeonggi, Ko
rea) according to the manufacturer’s instructions. DNA was elut
ed into 50 μl TE buffer and stored at -20 °C until PCR amplificati
on. Nested PCR (nPCR) amplification Direct a
mplification by nPCR was performed to identify ta
rget genes using the partial 17 kDa and ompA gene
s for Rickettsia species belonging to the family 
Rickettsiaceae. The ompA gene encoded for the SFGR-specific
 190 kDa outer membran
e protein and the partial 17 kDa antigen gene encoded for the Rickettsia genus-
specific 17 kDa outer membrane protein. Rickettsia spp. DNA presence was screened using the 17 k
Da antigen gene by nPCR as described previously
 . Briefly, the PCR was performed in a final reaction volume of 20 μl containing 3 μl DNA, 10
 pmol of each primer, and the premix reage
nt (Maxime PCR PreMix kit/i-starTaqTM GH
, iNtRON, Gyeonggi, Korea). nPCR was 
performed in a final reaction volume of 20 μl containing 3 μl of the initial PCR prod
uct, 10 pmol of each primer and the premix reag
ent. Samples positive for the 17 kDa gene target nPCR (appropriate size band identified
 following agarose gel electrophoresi
s) were subsequently assessed for the presence of a 
fragment of ompA. The premix reagent, reaction v
olumes, DNA templates and the amount of pr
imers were the same as those used in the 17 kDa reactions (Table 
2). Sequencing and phylogenetic analysis Sequencing of Rick
ettsia-positive nPCR amplicons was cond
ucted by Macrogen Inc. (Daejeon, Korea). The obtained sequences we
re compared for similarity to sequences deposited in GenBank using BLAST. Gene
 sequences, excluding the primer regions, were 
aligned using the multisequence alignment program in 
Lasergene version 8 (DNASTAR,
 USA), and phylogenetic analysis performed using ME
GA 6 software. Phylogenetic trees were constructed in CLUS
TAL W of the MegAlign Program (DNASTAR, USA) based on the alignmen
t of rickettsial gene sequences obtained following nPCR using the neighbor-joining met
hod and bootstrap analysi
s (1,000 reiterations) ca
rried out according to the Kimura 2
-parameter method. Pairwise alignments were performed w
ith an open-gap penalty of 10 and a gap extension penalty o
f 0.5. All positions containing alignment gaps and missing data we
re eliminated during the pairwise 
sequence comparison (pairwise deletion). Collec
tion of ticks A total of 6,484 ticks belonging to two genera and three species were collect
ed at four southwestern provinces by tick drag (Fig. 1). Haemaphysalis
 longicornis (4,471; 52 adults, 123 nym
phs and 4,296 larvae), was the most commonly collected tick, followed by H. flava (1,582; 2
8 adults, 263 nymphs and 1,291 larvae), and I. nipponensis (431; 25 adults, 5 nym
phs and 401 larvae). Detection and prevalence of rickettsial agents A total of 60/311 (19.30%)
 pools from Chungcheongnam (3/1,478;
 0.20%), Chungcheongbuk (0/331; 0%), Jeollanam (53/3,995; 1.33%) and Jeollabuk (4
/680; 0.59%) provinces, respectively, were positive for Rickettsia spp. usi
ng the 17 kDa antigen gene nPCR assay (Table 3). A total of 5
1/168 (30.36%) and 46/168 (27.38%) of H. longicornis 
pools were positive for Rickettsia using the 17 kDa antigen and ompA genes
, respectively. Only 1/108 (0.93%
) and 0/108 (0%) of H. flava were positive for Rick
ettsia spp. using the partial 17 kDa and ompA genes, respectively, while 
7/35 (20.00%) pools of I. nipponensis 
were positive for R. monacensis. The overall minimum f
ield infection rates (MFIR) of Rickettsia-positive pools (assuming 1 positive tick/pool) 
were 0.93% (60/6,484) for the 17 kDa antigen gene and 0.82% (53/6,484) for the ompA gene targets (T
able 4) . The overall MFIR for all three species ranged from 0–0.88% for larvae, 0–6.50% for
 nymphs, and 0–57.1% for adults (Table 4). There were no significant differences (Chi-square 
test, P = 0.98) observed between the
 positive rates of the partial 17 kDa and ompA genes. Sequ
encing and phylogenetic analysis The partial 17 kDa antigen gene and ompA n
PCR amplicons were sequenced and aligned with other rickettsial genes deposited in the GenBank 
database to identify known sequences with a high degree of similarity using ClustalW . The seque
ncing electropherograms of all positive pools were confirmed as
 single peaks, indicating each pool represented a single Rickettsia species. The amplicon s
equences of the partial 17 kDa gene obtained from H. l
ongicornis demonstrated 99.4–100% similarity to previously reported molecul
ar sequences from H. longicornis that phylogenetically clustered with Rickettsia sp
. HIR/D91, Rickettsia sp. 71-8, Rickettsia sp. HI550 and Rick
ettsia sp. LON-2, LON-13. Similarly, ompA sequences of positive pools 
of H. longicornis demonstrated 99.3–100% similarity to sequences of rickettsiae from H. lo
ngicornis previously
 reported as Rickettsia sp
. HIR/D91, Rickettsia sp. LON-2, LON-13, Rickettsia sp. HI550 and Rickettsia sp. FUJ98, 
that are similar, but distinct from R. japonica. Phylogenetic analysis sho
wed a close relationship between rickettsial isolates from H. longicornis from the southwe
stern provinces of Korea and rickettsial isolates from H.
 longicornis from other Asian countries (Figs. 2 and 3). The ampl
icon sequence of the partial 17 kDa gene for one positive
 pool of H. flava de
monstrated 99.7% similarity to p
reviously reported Rickettsia sp. 17-kDa-005 that 
clustered with R. montanensi
s and R. raoultii (Fig. 2). The amplicon sequences of the partial 17 k
Da gene and ompA genes from se
ven pools of I. nipponensis demonstrated 10
0% and 98.7–98.9% similarity, respectively, to previously reported R. m
onacensis IrR/Munich (Figs. 2 and 3). Tick-bor
ne rickettsiae are obligate intracellular bacteria belonging to the genus Rickettsia, ma
ny of which are of medical importance [27–29]. Clinically, tick-borne rickettsioses 
present with mild to life threatening signs a
nd symptoms that include: an eschar (not always indicated) that is present 1–2
 days prior to the onset of headache and fever (39.5–40.0 °C), 
and a characteristic rash 1–2 days after the onset of fever that can last for
 2–3 weeks. Tick-borne infections are often reported as n
on-specific febrile diseases due to the lack of specific clinical sign
s and symptoms and diagnostic assays
 effective early in the process of disease [27–29]. In the USA, there were a total of 3,649 c
ases of rickettsioses rep
orted between 1997–2002 and more than 1,500 case
s reported annually since 2005 (www.cdc
.gov/rmsf/stats/index.html). This increase in reporting may be due to the fact that r
ickettsioses are becoming more widely recognized [1, 29]. In 
addition to disease producing tick-bor
ne rickettsiae, many r
ickettsiae (e.g. R. bellii, R. canadensis, R. asi
atica, R. hoogstraalii, R. montanensis, R. rhipicephali and 
R. tamurae) have not been identified as pathogens and therefore are
 often referred to as non-pathogenic or of unknown pathogenicity. To furth
er complicate matters, with the discovery of numerous new R
ickettsia spp. in ticks usi
ng molecular tools, 
their role as causative agents of diseases of medical and
 veterinary importance has
 not been established, in part owing to lack of diagnostic tools for pathogen detection, ra
ther than for antibodies . With increased interest in tick-borne disease
s, surveillance of tic
ks from reptiles, mammals, birds, and vegetation has led to the identification of k
nown and yet to be described pathogens belonging to genera of Ehrlichia, Anaplasma, 
Bartonella, Borrelia, Babesia and Rickettsia, in addition to viruses [10, 18–
20, 30–36]. Rickettsia akari, a mite-borne pathogen isolated from a rodent, was firs
t reported in Korea in 1957 [37, 
38]. Later, acute febrile patients tested positive by serolo
gical tests for R. japonica in 2004, 2
005 and 2006 [9, 12, 13]. Recently, various gene targets from rickettsial pathoge
ns were identified in various ixodid tick species, including H. longicornis, H. flav
a, I. nipponensis and I. persulcatus [15–17]. Haemaphysalis longicornis, H. flava an
d I. nipponensis are commonly collected throughout Korea, while H. phasiana
, A. testudinarium, I. pomerantzevi, I. persulcatus and I. ovatus have 
a limited geographical/habitat distributio
n and are collected much less frequently [22, 38, 39]. Tick-borne disease surveillance 
usually includes the detec
tion of pools of ticks, as it is costly and untimely to assay 
for multiple agents within individual ticks . However, it is impo
rtant to assay ticks from specific habitats (e.g. forests and grasses/herbaceous vegetation) a
nd hosts over their geographical range t
o determine the potential associat
ion with man and domestic animals, as well as the dist
ribution of associated pathogens [8, 10, 16, 17, 19, 20, 31, 39]. The conserved 17 kDa antigen
 gene was used in this study to screen for the presence 
of rickettsiae in tick pools. Subsequently, the 17 kDa Rickettsia-positive pools (n = 60) were
 assessed for the presence of ompA (also by nPCR). All but seven of the 60 
Rickettsia-positive pools were 
positive for the more va
riable ompA gene. A previous report also showed that ompA genes were not detected i
n several different rickettsial g
enotypes . Results of the partial 17 kDa antigen and ompA gene sequences obtained fr
om H. longicornis pools showed that the rickettsial agents detected were clos
ely related to Rickettsia sp. HIR/D91, 71-8 identified in Korea, Rickettsia sp. 
HI550 and LON-2, LON-13 identified in Japan, and Rickettsia sp. FuJ98 
identified in China. Only one Rickettsia-po
sitive H. flava pool sequenced demonstrated a high similarity to Rickettsia s
p. 17-kDa-005 identified in C
hina, while all seven Rickettsia-positive pools of I. nipponensis were similar to R. monacens
is and Rickettsia sp. IrR/Munich identified in Europe. Rickettsia monacensis, a kno
wn human pathogen, was first isolated from I
. ricinus collected from an English garden in Germany in 1998 
. While R. monacensis was generally observed only in I. ricinus mainly from southern and e
astern Europe , it has been detected in I. nipponens
is collected from rodents captured in Korea (Jeollanam Province in 2006 and Gyeonggi and
 Gangwon provinces in 
2008) [10, 17]. Haemaphysalis longicorn
is is commonly collected from grasses and herbaceous vegetation, while H. flava is more co
mmonly associated with forest habitats and I. ni
pponensis is collected similarly from both habitats t
hroughout the ROK . Haemaphysalis longicornis is commonly
 found in grassy areas that expo
se civilians and military populations to tick bites and associated pathoge
ns, which not only include Rickettsia spp., but other bacteria and viruses o
f medical and veterinary importance [32–35, 41]
. Rickettsia monacensis has been detected in
 I. nipponensis, which are more frequently reported in t
ick bites [42–45]. While H. longicornis, the primary vector of the severe fever with thromboc
ytopenia syndrome (SFTS) virus, has not been fre
quently reported to bite humans, with 36, 51, and 78 cases of SFTS infections among civilians in 
the ROK reported from 2013–2015, respectively, indicates that most bites go unreported w
ith the potential for the transmission of ricke
ttsiae to both civilian and military populations. Additional analysis of gene 
sequences of Rickettsia spp. will allow for their specific identification and the development of s
pecies-specific PCR assays and determination of their medical and veterina
ry importance. SFGR infections are not reportable events in the ROK and some cases are lik
ely included as scrub typhus since the symptoms, including fe
ver, eschar and rash, are similar. Analysis of eschar tis
sue by PCR would allow for the detection and identification of Rickettsia spp. 
and scrub typhus strains among patients with similar disease pre
sentation . The identification of the SFGR diseases and scrub typhus is essential 
to determine tick- and mite-borne disease risks and develop appropriate d
isease prevention strategies. Additional investigations to determine 
the identification of rickettsiae associated with each of the tick species using single tick analysi
s and the geographical/habitat distribution of each of the tick species and associa
ted pathogens are needed to identif
y disease risks to both civilian and military populations in the ROK. Rickettsial pathogens pose a 
potential health threat to militar
y and civilian communities in the ROK. Ixodes nipponens
is has been shown to be infected with R. monacensis, a human pathogen, and H. longic
ornis and H. flava have been shown to be infected with SFGR of unknown 
pathogenicity. More intense and longi
tudinal surveillance of ticks and their hosts in the ROK
 is needed to determine their
 geographical and habitat dist
ributions, and the geographical distribution and prevalence of their associated pathogens. The
 characterization of SFGR is essential to identify agen
ts of tick-borne human diseases and their relative path
ogenicity. Lastly, the detection and identification data of the rickettsia
e reported herein will provide for the developme
nt of species-specific diagnostic assays that are essential fo
r rapid detection of SFG
R in the vectors, vertebrate hosts and patients. - 17 kDa: R
ickettsia-specific outer membrane antigen 
gene minimum field infection rate per 100 ticks - om
pA : spotted fever group-spe
cific 190 kDa outer membrane protein A gene Republic of Korea P
arola P, Paddock CD, Raoult
 D. Tick-borne rickettsioses around the world: emerging diseases challenging old concepts. Clin Mic
robiol Rev. 2005;18:719–56. Gille
spie JJ, Joardar V, Williams KP, Driscoll T, Host
etler JB, Nordberg E, et al. Rickettsia genome overrun by mobile gen
etic elements provides insight into the acquisition of genes characteristic of an o
bligate intracellular lifestyle. J Bacteriol. 2012;194:376–94. Merhej 
V, Angelakis E, Socolovschi C,
 Raoult D. Genotyping, evolution and epidemiological f
indings of Rickettsia species. Infect Genet Evol. 2014;25:122–37. Murray GGR, Weinert LA, Rhule E
L, Welch JJ. The Phylogeny of Rickettsia using different evolutionary signat
ures: how tree-like is bacterial evoluti
on? Syst Biol. 2016;65:265–79. Sekeyova Z
, Fournier PE, Rehacek J, Raoult D. Characterization of a new spotted fever grou
p Rickettsia detected in Ixodes r
icinus (Acari: Ixodidae) collected in Slovakia. J Med Entomol. 2000;37:
707–13. Tian ZC, Liu GY, Shen H, Xie JR, Luo J, Tian MY. First report on the occurrence of
 Rickettsia slovaca and Ricke
ttsia raoultii in Dermacentor silvarum in China. Parasit Vectors. 2012;5:19. Sp
eck S, Derschum H, Damdindorj T, Dashdavaa O, Jiang J, Kays
ser P, et al. Rickettsia raoultii, the predominant Rickettsia found in Mongolian Dermacentor nutta
lli. Ticks Tick Borne Dis.
 2012;3:227–31. Cheng C, Fu W, Ju W, Yang L, Xu N, Wang YM, et al. Diversity of spotted feve
r group Rickettsia infection in hard ticks from Sui
fenhe, Chinese-Russian border. Ticks Tick Borne Dis. 2016;7:715–9. Chung MH, Lee
 SH, Kim MJ, Lee JH,
 Kim ES, Kim MK, et al. Japanese spotted fever, South Korea. Emerg Infect Dis. 2006;12:1122–4. 
Shin SH, Seo HJ, Choi YJ, Choi MK, Kim HC, Klein TA, et al. Detection of Rickettsia monacensis from 
Ixodes nipponensis collected 
from rodents in Gyeonggi and Gangwon Provinces, Republic of Kore
a. Exp Appl Acarol. 2013;61:337–47. Uchida T, Uchiyama
 T, Kumano K, Walker DH. Rickettsia japonica sp. nov., the etiological agent of spotted fever 
group rickettsiosis in Japan. Int J Systematic Bacteriol. 1992;42:303–5. Jang WJ, 
Kim JH, Choi YJ, Jung KD, Kim YG, Lee SH, et
 al. First serologic evidence of human spotted fev
er group rickettsiosis in Korea. J Clin Microbiol. 2004;42:2310–3. Jang WJ, Cho
i YJ, Kim JH, Jung KD, Ryu JS, Le
e SH, et al. Seroepidemiology of spotted fever group and typhus group rickettsioses in humans, South
 Korea. Microbiol Immunol. 2005;49:17–24. Choi YJ, Lee SH, Park KH, Koh YS, Lee KH, B
aik HS, et al. Evaluat
ion of PCR-based assay for diagnosis of spotted fever group ric
kettsiosis in human serum samples. Clin Diagn Lab Immunol
. 2005;12:759–63. Lee JHAS, Park HS, Jeong EJ, Choi HG,
 Jang WJ, Kang SS, et al. Prevalence of spotted fever group Rickettsia from Haema
physalis ticks in Chun
gju province. J Bacteriol Virol. 2
005;35:203–7. Moon BCJJ, Choi YJ, Kim JE, Seo HJ, Shin EH, Song BGLH, e
t al. Detection and identification of the spotted fever 
group rickettsial agents from Haemaphysalis ticks in Jeju Island, Korea. J Bacteriol Virol
. 2009;39:317–27. Lee KM, Choi YJ, Shin SH, Choi MK, Song HJ, Kim HC, et al. S
potted fever group Rickettsia closely related 
to Rickettsia monacensis isolated from ticks in South Jeolla province, Korea. Microbio
l Immunol. 2013;57:487–95. Ko S, Kim HC, Ya
ng YC, Chong ST, Richards AL, Sames WJ, et al. Detection of Rickettsia f
elis and Rickettsia typhi 
and seasonal prevalence of fleas collected from small mammals at Gyeonggi Province in the Republ
ic of Korea. Vector Borne Zoonotic Dis. 2011;11:1243–51. Chae JS, Yu DH, Shringi S, Klein TA, K
im HC, Chong ST, et al. Microbial pathogens in ticks, rodents and a shr
ew in northern Gyeonggi-do near the DMZ, Ko
rea. J Vet Sci. 2008;9:285–93. Kim CM, Yi YH, Yu DH, Lee MJ, Cho MR, Desa
i AR, et al. Tick-borne rickettsial pathog
ens in ticks and small mammals in Korea. Appl Environ Microbiol. 2006;72
:5766–76. Chong ST, Kim HC, Lee IY, Kollars Jr TM, Sancho AR, Sames WJ, et
 al. Comparison of dragging and sweepi
ng methods for collecting ticks and determ
ining their seasonal distributions for various habitats, Gyeonggi Province, Republic of Korea
. J Med Entomol. 2013;50:611–8. Chong ST, Kim HC, Lee IY
, Kollars Jr TM, Sancho A
R, Sames WJ, et al. Seasonal distribut
ion of ticks in four habitats near the demili
tarized zone, Gyeonggi-do (Province), Repu
blic of Korea. Korean J Parasitol.
 2013;51:319–25. Yamaguti N, T
ipton VJ, Keegan HL, Toshioka S. Ticks of Japan, Korea, and the Ryukyu Islands. B
righam Young Univ Sci Bull, 
Biol Ser. 1971;15:1–
226. Robbins RG, Keirans JE. Syste
matics and ecology of the subgenus Ixodiopsis (Acari: Ixodidae: Ixodes). Lanham: Th
omas Say Foundation Monograph XIV. Entomological Society of America; 1992.
 p. 159. Gu W, Lampman R, Novak RJ. Assessment of arbovirus vector infection rates using variab
le size pooling. Med Ve
t Entomol. 2004;18:200–4. Ishikura M, A
ndo S, Shinagawa Y, Matsuura K, Hasegawa S, Nakayama T, et al. Phylogenetic analysi
s of spotted fever group rickettsiae base
d on gltA, 17-kDa, and rOmpA genes amplif
ied by nested PCR from ticks in Japan. Mi
crobiol Immunol. 2003;47:823–32. Raoult D, Roux V. R
ickettsioses as paradigms of new or emerging infectious diseases. Clin Microbiol Rev
. 1997;10:694–719. Parola P, Davoust B, Rao
ult D. Tick- and flea-borne rickettsial emerging zoonoses. Vet Res. 2005;3
6:469–92. Walker DH. Rickettsiae and rickettsial infections: the cu
rrent state of knowledge. Clin Infect Dis. 2007;45:S39–44. Tateno M, Sunahara A, Nakani
shi N, Izawa M, Matsuo T, Setoguchi A, et al. Molecular survey of arthr
opod-borne pathogens in ticks obtained
 from Japanese wildcats. Ticks Tick 
Borne Dis. 2015;6:281–9. Kang SW, Doan HT, Choe SE, Noh JH, Yoo MS, Reddy KE, et al. Molecu
lar investigation of tick-borne pathogens in ticks from grazing cattle in Korea. P
arasitol Int. 2013;62:276–82
. Kim KH, Yi J, Oh WS, Kim NH,
 Choi SJ, Choe PG, et al. Human granulocytic anaplasmosis, South 
Korea, 2013. Emerg Infect Dis. 2014;20:1708–11. Moon S, Gwack J, Hwang KJ, Kwo
n D, Kim S, Noh Y, et al. Autocht
honous lyme borreliosis in humans and ticks in Korea. Osong Public Health Res Perspect. 2013;4
:52–6. Yun SM, Song BG, Choi W, Park 
WI, Kim SY, Roh JY, et al. Prevalence of tick-born
e encephalitis virus
 in ixodid ticks collected from th
e Republic of Korea during 2011–2012. Osong Public Health Res Perspect. 2
012;3:213–21. Christova I, Van De Pol J, Yazar S, Velo E, Schouls L. I
dentification of Borrelia burgdorferi sensu lato, 
Anaplasma and Ehrlichia species, and spotted fever gr
oup rickettsiae in ticks from Southeastern Europe. Eur J Clin Microbiol Infect Dis
. 2003;22:535–42. Choi 
YJ, Lee EM, Park JM, Lee KM, Han SH,
 Kim JK, et al. Molecular detection of various rickettsiae in mites (Acari: Trombiculid
ae) in southern Jeolla Province Korea. Microbiol Immunol. 2007;51:307–12. Jackson 
EB, Danauskas JX, Coale MC, Smadel JE
. Recovery of Rickettsia akari from the Korean vole Microtus fortis 
pelliceus. Am J Hyg. 1957;66:301–8. Kim HC, Kim JH, Jo YS, Chong ST, Sames WJ, Klei
n TA, et al. Records 
of Ixodes pomeranzevi Serdyukova, 1941 (Acari: Ixodidae) from
 small mammals in northern Gyeonggi and Gangwon provinces, Republic of Korea. Sys
 Applied Acarol. 2009
;14:129–35. Sames WJ, Kim HC, Chong ST,
 Lee IY, Apanaskevich DA, Robbins RG, et al. Haemaphysalis 
(Ornithophysalis) phasiana (Acari: Ixodidae) in the Republic of Korea: two province records and habi
tat descriptions. Sys Applied Acarol. 2008;13:43–50. Katargina O, 
Geller J, Ivanova A, Varv K, Tefanova V, Vene S, et al. Detection and identifi
cation of Rickettsia sp
ecies in Ixodes tick populations from Estonia. Ticks Tick Borne Dis. 2015;6:6
89–94. Suh JH, Kim HC, Yun SM, 
Lim JW, Kim JH, Chong ST, et al. Detection of SFTS virus in Ixodes
 nipponensis and Amblyomma testudinarium (Ixodi
da: Ixodidae) collected from reptiles in the Republic of Korea. J Med Entomol. 2016;53:584–90.
 Cho BK, Nam HW, Cho SY, Lee WK. A case of tick 
bite by a spontaneously retreated Ixodes nipponensis. Korea
n J Parasitol. 1995;33:239–42. Ko JH, Cho DY, Chung BS, Kim SI. Two human cases of tick bit
e caused by Ixodes nipponensis. Kor
ean J Parasitol. 2002;40:199–203. Jeon WS, K
im HS, Lee JD, Cho SH. Tick bite. Ann Dermatol. 2014;26:127–8. Lee SH, Chai JY, Kho WG, Hong
 SJ, Chung YD. A human case of tick bite by Ixodes nipponensis on the scalp. 
Kisaengchunghak Chapchi. 1989;27:67–9. Luce-Fedrow A, Mullins K, Kostick AP, St Joh
n HK, Jing J, Richards AL. Strategies for detecting rickettsiae and diagnosing rickettsial diseases.
 Future Microbiol. 2015;10:537–64. This research was s
upported by the Center for Disease Control & Preventio
n, the Ministry of H
ealth & Welfare (grant no. 4800-4838-303), the Armed Force
s Health Surveillance Branch, Global Emerging Infections Surveillance and Response Systems (AFH
SB-GEIS) work unit A1402 (ALR), and the Medical Department Activity-Korea, 65th Medical Briga
de. The opinions expressed he
rein are those of the authors and are
 not to be construed as official or reflecting the views of the U.S. D
epartments of the Army, Navy or Defense. Availability of data 
and materials The datasets supporting the conclusions of this article are included w
ith NCBI accession numbers: Chungcheong 927 (KX418671, KX418672), Jeolla 958 (KX418673), Jeolla 9
59 (KX418675, KX4186
76), Jeolla 960 (KX418677), Jeolla 961 (KX418678), 
Jeolla 962 (KX418740), Jeolla 964 (KX418765, KX418766), Jeolla 
967 (KX418741, KX418742), Jeolla 968 (KX418767, KX418768), Jeolla 969 (KX418743, KX418744)
, Jeolla 972 (KX418754, KX418755), Jeolla 973 (KX418745, KX418746), Jeolla 979 (KX418756, KX418
757), Jeolla 985 (KX418758, KX418759), Jeolla 990 (KX418760, KX4187
61), Jeolla 1004 (KX418663, KX418664), Jeolla
 1046 (KX418747, KX418748), Jeolla 1048 (KX418679, KX4186
80), Jeolla 1049 (KX418681, KX418682), Jeolla 1050 (KX418683, KX418684), Jeolla 105
2 (KX418685, KX418686), Jeolla 1053 (KX418687, KX418688), Jeolla 1055 (KX418689, KX418690), Jeol
la 1056 (KX418691, KX418692), Jeolla 1058 (KX418749), Jeolla 1059 (KX418
750, KX418751), Jeolla 1060 (KX418693, KX418694), Jeolla 1061 (KX418695, KX418696), Jeolla 
1063 (KX418697, KX4186
98), Jeolla 1064 (KX418699
, KX418700), Jeolla 1065 (KX418762, KX418763), Jeo
lla 1066 (KX418701, KX418702), Jeolla 1067 (KX418703, KX418704), Jeolla 1068 (KX41
8705, KX418706), Jeolla 1069 (KX418707, KX418708), Jeolla 1070 (KX418709, KX418710), Jeolla 1072 (K
X423490), Jeolla 1073 (KX4187
11, KX418712), Jeolla 1074 (KX418713, KX418714), Jeolla 107
5 (KX418715, KX418716), Jeolla 1076 (KX418717, KX418718), Jeolla 1077 (KX418719, KX
418720), Jeolla 1078 (KX418721, KX418722), Jeolla 1081 (KX41872
3, KX418724), Jeolla 1083 (KX418725, KX418726), Jeolla 1092 (KX418727, KX418728), Jeolla 1094 (KX
418729, KX418730), Jeolla 1101 (KX418764), Jeolla 
1133 (KX418731, KX418732), Chungcheong 1147 (KX418657, KX418658), Chungcheong 1155 (K
X418665, KX418666), Jeolla 1167 (KX418752, KX418753), Jeolla 1168 (KX418
733, KX418734), Jeolla 1175 (KX418659, KX418660), Jeolla 1176 (KX418735, KX41
8736), Jeolla 1178 (KX418737, KX4
18738), Jeolla 1196 (KX418667, KX418668), Jeolla 1199 (KX418661, KX418662), Jeolla 1200 (KX41
8669, KX418670), Jeolla 1208 (KX418739). Conceived th
e study, drafted the
 manuscript, and performed the experiments: YTN, YSL, HKL and SYK. Collected and i
dentified ticks: TAK, HCK, and STC. Reviewed the manuscript: TN, HCK, TAK, ALR, JJ
 and HKL. All authors read and approved the final manuscript. The authors de
clare that they have no competing interests. Consent for publication Ethics 
approval and consent to participate Rights and perm
issions Open Access This article is distributed under the terms of the
 Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License 
(http://creativecommons
.org/licenses/by/4.0/), which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any med
ium, provided you give 
appropriate credit to the original aut
hor(s) and the source, provide a link to
 the Creative Commons 
license, and indicate if changes were made. The
 Creative Commons Public Do
main Dedication waiver (http://creativecomm
ons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/)
 applies to the data made available i
n this article, unless otherwise st
ated. About this article Cite this article Noh, Y., Lee, Y.S., Kim, HC. et al. Molecular detection
 of Rickettsia species in ticks collected from the southwestern provinces of the Repub
lic of Korea. Parasites Vectors 10, 20 (2017). https://doi.org/10.1186/s13071-01
6-1955-x - Spotted fever group rickettsiae - Ixodid ticks - 17 kDa 
antigen gene
by Dr. Ron Moseley The f
ollowing article is provided by Ebed 
Publishing. *Note: Endnotes appear at the end of the art
icle. Example: (1). Dr. Ron 
Moseley Contrary to what some believe, the first fifteen bishops of the ori
ginal Church at Jerusalem were Jewish.
 In his Ecclesiastical History, Eusebius tells
 us that "the church at Jerusalem, at first formed of 
the circumcision, came later to be formed of Gentile Christ
ians, and the whole church under them
, consisted of faithful Hebrews who continued from th
e time of the apostles, until the siege of Jerusalem."(1) In his second-century historical w
ork, Hegesippus describes the rivalry be
tween a man named Thebouthis and others, seeking the position of bishop after the death of J
ames, who was said to be the first pastor at Jerusalem.(2) Acco
rding to Hegesippus, the H
ebrew Christians finally chose Simeon, who was a cousin of the L
ord, to succeed James. Epiphanius lists the remaining thirteen Jewish pastors of the Jerusalem
 Church as Justus, Zaccheus, Tobias, Benjamin, John, Mathias, Philip,
 Seneca, Justus, Levi, Ephrem, Joseph, and Jude, completing the histor
ical record all the way up to th
e Bar Kochba Revolt (A.D. 132-
135).(3) These Jewish relatives of Jesus who led the early Churc
h were called Desposynoi, meaning "heirs," and were often persecuted because of their
 Davidic lineage and their relationship to the Messiah. During the reign of Hadrian (
A.D. 117-138), the Jewish nation was crushed in what c
ame to be called the Second Jewish War. J
erusalem was renamed Aelia Capitolina by the Romans, and Jews were forbidden to enter the city f
or one hundred years. As these dramatic events were unfolding, many of the Hebrew Chris
tians fled to the mountains of Pella, located in present-day Jordan, in obedience
 to Christ's instruction found in Matthew 24:16. This left 
only Gentile believers in control of the Church for the first time, 
and they quickly appointed a man
 named Mark as Jerusalem's first non-Jewish pastor.(4) (5
) According to Baring Gould's history, the community of believers in exile, led by James and 
Simeon, was still clinging tightly to the old
 traditions while crouched at Pella.(6) Since the Hebrew Christians were no
t completely removed from Jerusalem until well into the second centu
ry, for its first one hundred years, the Church remained very much a part of first-century 
Judaism, and its leader
s stayed involved in many Jewish affairs. There was no i
mmediate split from the synagogue, as evide
nced by Jesus' warning t
hat some synagogues would punish His follo
wers for preaching a different brand of Judaism ( Matthew 10:17). We know that this scourging by syn
agogue leaders was not an a
bnormal part of normative Judaism since it is mentioned a number of times i
n early rabbinical literature.(7) The structure of the local synago
gues was carried over dire
ctly into the structure of the early Church. A president, deacons, a precentor (song leader), an
d teachers can all be found in both the synagogu
e and the early Church. We kn
ow from early sources that there were be
tween 394 and 480 synagogues in Jerusalem during th
e first century, one being located within the precincts of the Temple itself.(8) This is u
ndoubtedly why the early pattern of the Church had its origins in the J
ewish synagogue. Note the following similarities 
between the ancient synagogue and the early Church. The p
rinciple leader of a synagogue was the nasi or president. In the Christian congregation, the le
aders were still called president rather than p
astor, as late as A.D. 
150, by such non-Jewish writers as Justin Martyr.(9) In the synagogue structure, three of these l
eaders would join together to form a tribunal for judging cases concerning money, theft
, immorality, admission of proselytes, laying on of hands, and a host of other 
things mentioned in the Sanhedrin section of the Mishnah. Thes
e men were known as the "rulers of the synagogue" becaus
e they took on the chief care of things, a title mentioned several times in the t
eachings of Jesus (Mark 5:3 and Luke 8:41). This practice was still in use among the Gentile 
congregations at Corinth under t
he apostleship of Paul, where he spoke of the court within the congregation (
1 Corinthians 6:1-2). The nasi was the administrator of the synagogue, and we
 know that James, the half-brother of Jesus, was th
e nasi of the early Church at Jerusalem. Early docum
ents such as the Didache suggest that the chur
ches in Asia Minor and Greece treat
ed the Church at Jerusalem with much the same authority as the synagog
ues did the Sanhedrin.(10) (11
) There also was a public minister of the synagogue called a chazen who prayed, 
preached behind a wooden pulpit, and took ca
re of the general oversight of the reading of the Law and other congregation
al duties. He did not read the Law, but stood by the on
e who did, to correct and oversee, ensuring that it w
as done properly. He selected seven readers each week who were well-educ
ated in the Hebrew Scriptures. The group consisted of o
ne priest, one Levite, and five regular Israelites (Luke 4:16). The terms overse
er of the congregation, angel of the church, and mi
nister of the synagogue all referred to this position.(12) There were also three men known as 
almoners or parnasin who cared for the poor and distributed alms and were e
xpected to be scholars of the Scriptures. Since the
y were also known as gabb
ay tzedikah, it may be from this function that we get the modern term dea
con. Some scholars hol
d that it was from these seven, the president, the ruler, the overseer, the chazen,
 and the three parnas,
 that the idea of selecting "seven good men of honest report, full of the Holy G
host and wisdom" came about (Acts 6:3). These men were appointed over the business affairs of t
he Church so the apostles would not have to be distracted from th
eir study of the Scriptures and prayer. In Jewish literature the questi
on is asked, "Who is a schola
r worthy of being appointed Parnas?" The answer is "He who is asked about a law from any source, 
and is able to give an answer."(13) In modern times the Jew
s use this term to refer to a lay person, who is also called an elder. Another function in 
the ancient synagogue was the sha
liach, or announcer. From this position
 we get the term apostle, meaning one who is sent forth to announce the gospel, a ro
le equivalent to that of our modern missionaries. There was also th
e maggid, a migratory evangelist of the first century who spoke to various congregations, 
and the batlanim, a scholarly teacher who was e
ither independently wealthy or on some type of support so he woul
d be available to pr
ovide the congregation with accurate academics and answers. The
re had to be at least ten batlanim in every congregation of one hundred and twenty memb
ers. There was even a tradition that a synagogue service cou
ld not commence without ten men present.(14
) Jesus may have been referring to this tradition 
when He said, "Where two or three are gath
ered in My name, there am I in the
 midst of them" (Matth
ew 18:20). Next, there was the zakin,
 a word meaning "old," more in the sin
ce of maturity than age. This person provided counsel to the people and was similar to a modern-da
y pastor or elder. In Judaism, those who had 
reached the age of forty were considered to have attained understanding, and those w
ho were over fifty were considered worthy to counsel the younger people.(15) The rabbi was a
 prophet after the manner of the post-exilic prophets of Judaism. He carried the responsibil
ity of reading and preaching the Word and exhorting and edifying the peop
le (1 Corinthians 14:3). There was also the interpret
er, known as the meturg
anim. This was a person skilled in languages who stood by the one read
ing the Law or teaching in a Bet Midrash (a house of study) to
 interpret into the lingua franca of that day the Hebrew that was being spoken. Th
e use of an interpreter goes back to the time of Ezra, when the interpreter was s
aid to have added the
 meaning. The Talmud gives many details of the i
nterpreter's duties in the synagogue.(16) It is from this concept that we understand
 Jesus' words, "What you hear in the ear, preach upon the housetops" (Matthew 10:27). This phr
ase was easily understood by those who were familiar with the system of study in the Bet Midrash, 
where the teacher would litera
lly speak the message in the interpreter's ear, who would then shout it out to others, both inside t
he classroom and out. Besides the organizational structure of t
he early Church having its roots in the synagogue, many of its customs were also
 Jewish. All of the initial Christians were ei
ther Jews by birth or by conversion, and apparently there were no Gentile members for at
 least the first ten years. This conclusion is implied by several texts, includi
ng Acts 10, where, approx
imately ten years aft
er His ascension, the Lord had to instruct Peter three times to go into the house of a Gentile. Thi
s strongly suggests that th
e Jewish Church had been meeting house t
o house and breaking bread only in Jewi
sh homes up to the time (Acts 2:42-26). Furthermore, when Peter entered the house o
f Cornelius, he explained to his household t
hat he still understood it to be un
lawful for a Jew to enter 
the house of a non-Jew (Acts 10:28). Further evidence of t
he Jewishness of the early believers can be found in an
 incident recorded in Acts 21:20, an incident which occurred some t
wenty-five years after the Lord's ascension. When Paul returned to Jerusalem with some 
charitable contributions for the b
elievers, he was told that during his absence many thou
sands of Jews had become believers,
 yet they continued to be staunch upholders of the Law. Not only were the first fifteen el
ders of the Jerusalem Church Jewish, but so were the initial names applied to the early congregati
ons. The term Minim, meaning "heretics" in Hebrew, was use
d by some in the Jewish community to describe the new believers. The Way, used in 
Acts 21:14 and 22, was a Messianic term taken from texts such as Isaiah 40:2, which
 refers to preparing "the way of the Lord." The Nazoraioi is Gre
ek for Nazarenes (Acts 24:5) and is obv
iously derived from Jesus' Jewish hometown. The term 
Messianists is derived directly
 from the Hebrew word Messiah. Epip
hanius' history says that before the believers were
 called Christians, they were for a short time known b
y the title Iessaioi, probably derived from the name Jesus, (17) a name saturated with
 the idea of salvation. Each of these names has a Hebraic background and is closely related to 
an Old Testament text. The word
 Christian does not come from the Hebrew word for Anointed One but from a
 Greek word, and was not used by the Jerusalem Church
 at all. Christian was first used as a Gentile
 title for the believers at Antioch some forty to forty- five years into th
e first century (Acts 11:26). The term "were called" suggests that the name was coined by those out
side the Church, perhaps to distinguish the disciples of Christ from unc
onverted Gentiles, as well as from other branches of Judaism. There is no evidence that the term 
was used extensively as a self-designation by the early Church, since it is only used three times i
n the New Testament and only once by a believer (Acts 11:26, 26:28, and 1 Peter 4:16). The wor
d Christian does a not appear consistently as a self-designation until t
he Didache,(18) and was used later by I
gnatius during the late first or
 early second century.(19) The reason this term was not used earlier may be 
explained by a letter from the Roman Governor Pliny the Younger to Emperor Trajan ar
ound the year A.D. 112. The letter indicates that 
those identifying with this name were killed.(20) In examining the Jewish roots of the Ch
urch, it is important to differentiate between the Hebrew Chr
istians, such as the Nazarenes and Messianists at the beginning, and the various groups o
f Ebionites with Judaizing traits, which were 
active around the turn of the first century. The early Hebrew Church was composed of those w
ho believed in justification by faith as well as those who stressed traditions that involved le
galism. Although most Jewish believers continued to keep the S
abbath and the variou
s laws that differentiated them from non-Jews, str
ictly as an identification code, they 
did not require it for their non-Jewish conve
rts. This identification as a Jew had n
othing to do with sa
lvation, but was kept by Jews as a reminder of the special eternal Covenant that God 
had made with them as a ch
osen people. The Covenant reminded God's people that they were the guardians 
of the Holy Land and were obliged to maintain and pres
erve the Law (Genesis 15:
18, 17:7-10, Deuteronomy 7:6, Psalms 105:45, Ezekiel 16:6, Isaiah 44:1 and Romans 3:1-2). Aft
er an investigation of all Scripture relating to Israel, it app
ears that the chosen people status was not awarded as a specia
l privilege, but because t
he people of Israel could be trusted to pres
erve the Law of God (Psalms 
105:45). Although some 170 of the 613 Laws of the Torah a
pply to moral and ethical matters, few Christians recognize them as apart 
of modern theology and it has
 fallen to the Jewish people to preserve this aspect of
 God's Law until the pres
ent. Chapter One 25 Teaching Questions Follow in the Text. In order to make this book
 a viable part of your studies, Ron included qu
estions that may be used in discussion
 within a group, or for your own enrichment and review.
 20 Endnotes for Chapter One: (1) Isaac Boyle, trans., Eusebius' Ecclesiastical History, H.
E. 5 (Grand Rapids: Baker Book House, l974), pp. 4-6. (2) Ibid., H. E.: 3, 32,
6. (3) Us, H.E.IV.5. (4) Eus, H.E.III 5,3; Epiph.paw.29:7,7;30:2,7. (5) Ibid., H.E. 4,6. (6) Barin
g, Gould, "Schonfield's History," Lost and Hostile History, (London: Duckworth Public
ations, 1936), p. 35. (7) Rabbi Isidore Epstein, ed., Soncino Talmud, Sanh. 9:6; Yev. 90 (Lond
on: Soncino Press, 1948). (8) Jerusalem Talmud, Meg. 3:1; Ket. 105a; Sot. 7:7,8; Yoma 7:1 
(London: Soncino Press, 1948). (9) Alexander Roberts, ed., Anti-Nicene Fathers, Vol.
 I (Grand Rapids: Eerdmans Publishing Company), p.186. (10) Roswell Hitchcock, ed., Didache 8
, (Willits, CA: Eastern Orthodox Publishers, 1989), chapters 11-15. (11) Issac Boyl
e, trans., Eusebius' Ecclesiastical History 3.25.4 (Grand Rapids; B
aker Book House, 1974). (12) John Lightfoot, "Commentary on the New
 Testament from the Talmud and
 Hebraica," Hebraica, Vol. II., Rev. 3:1,7,14 (Peabody, MA:
 Hendrickson Publica
tions, 1979), pp. 89-99. (13) Rabbi I
sidore Epstein, ed., Son
cino Talmud, Shab. 114a (London: Soncino Press, 1948). (14) Lightfoot, op.cit., p.89. (15) Phi
lip Blackman, ed., Mishnah, I Pet. 5:5; I Tim. 5:1; Avot 5:21 (New York: Judaica
 Press, 1983). (16) Rabbi Isidore Epstein, ed., Soncino Talmud, Meg. 4; Maimon.Tep
hillah, 12; Massecheth Soph. 10 (London: Soncino Press, 1948). (17) Ray Pritz, Nazarene Je
wish Christianity (Jerusalem: magnes Press, Hebrew University, 1992), p. 
13. (18) Roswell Hitchcock, ed., Didache, 12:4 (Willits, CA:
 Eastern Orthodox Publishers, 1989). (19) David Freedman, ed., Anchor Bible Dictionary, Vol. 
I, (New York: Doubleday, 1992), pp. 925-26. (20) David Freedman, ed., "Plin
y Letters 10:96," Anchor Bible Dictionary, Vol. I (New York: Doubleday), p. 926. Back to the Magaz
ine Index
Aboriginal Australians: A History Since 1788 – Richard Broome Long before European sett
lement, Australia was home to the Aboriginal people who lived happily. However, it w
as the black-white encounters from 1788 that the A
boriginal people realised the changes in their country with th
e creation of a new society, a society where there are winners as well as losers. From the persp
ective of an original Australian, Richard Broome explores the su
rvival of the Aboriginal culture and the resistance and struggle that met the peop
le. Since the first edition in 1982, there have been three fo
llowing editions covering more 
stories from the ‘Intervention’ to the landmark apology by the Federal Parliament to the ‘Stolen G
eneration’. Fight for Liberty and Freedom – John Maynard In 1924, t
he first ‘politically organised and united all-Aboriginal
 activist group was the A
ustralian Aboriginal Progressive Association (AAPA)’, led by Frederick M
aynard. This was the first time in colonised history that Aboriginal people
 made their voices heard to the public, from street rallies to new
spaper coverage and letters and petitions to the government. Since then,
 the AAPA has continued to support their original rights from the Aboriginal right to la
nd and the acquisition of citizenship rights to their cultural identity. John Maynard’
s Fight for Liberty and Freedom makes a huge contribution to understanding the countr
y’s social and political history from
 an Aboriginal perspective. Bl
ue Mountains Dreamin
g: The Aboriginal Heritage – Eugene Stockton Within 30 years, the way of life and the country they
 loved changed all so 
drastically. Prior to 1788, the Aborigines of the Blue Mountains had ne
ver come into contact with Europeans, but as they began to explore, c
ultural sites and arrangements were taken over. The traditional lifestyle the Gundungurra a
nd Darug people of the Blue Mountains was changed
, forcing them to ad
apt to the new ‘white culture’. Eugene Stockto
n builds on previous research in t
his second edition, with further references to Aboriginal presence in the re
gion dating back to prehistoric times. Forgotten War – Henry Reynolds ‘Aborigines who fought for t
he white man are remembered with reverence. The many more who
 fought against him are forgotten.’ But why is this the case? 
Henry Reynolds researches the wars and battles fought between the Aborig
inal people and the European settlers over Austra
lia. It is believed that these wars were over
 great conflicts that caused a high level of violence on both 
sides; however, this is the part of history that is never spoken. In
 reading Forgotten War, you will begin to question why Australians can co
mmemorate those who fought in both World Wars and other confl
icts but cannot acknowledge what occurred on their own land
. Survival in our Own Land – Christobel Mattingley Ever wondered how the Europeans (Goonyas) were 
viewed by Aboriginal people? Christobel Mattingley writes Su
rvival in our Own Land from the p
erspective of the Nungas,
 the Aboriginal people from South Australia, exploring the invaders’ placement of laws and pol
icies, and the effect this had on their people. This book featur
es stories upon stories, alongside pr
ose and poetry, from around 150 Nungas, telling their 
very real stories, many of which have never been published. F
rom the imposition of clothes, employment and education t
o land rights and gender discrimination, each story illust
rates the destruction of their culture
. Follow the Rabbit-Proof Fence – Doris Pilkington (Nugi Garimara) The Aboriginal Protection
 Act of 1897 allowed authorities from the European colonies to remove ev
ery Aboriginal within an
y district and keep them within ‘reserves’. This led to many
 Aboriginal and half-caste children to be taken away from their fami
lies – known today as the Stolen Generation. Follow the Rabbit-Proof Fence tells the story of thre
e half-caste girls who were forcibly removed, joining many child
ren who would never see their families again. The 
genuine authenticity of the book draws readers in, allowing
 them to follow the girls as they escape and follow the rabbit
-proof fence back to their fami
ly. This iconic story (and 
film) will change your understanding and perspective of Australia’s history.
There are two silent killer diseases t
hat lie within the body- high blood pressure and diab
etes. Hypoglycaemia is another word for diabetes and this metabolic disorder is a result of improp
er glucose metabolism in the body. Hu
nger is satiated with food and whatever we eat is c
onverted to calories and sugar in the body. This glucose is carried via 
the blood stream to different organs and acts as an ener
gy booster for them, prompting them to perform their functions but
 what happens if the sugar lies in the blood in excess? The body cells 
absorb glucose and use it for production of ene
rgy. This glucose in the blood
 can be used only if there is insulin 
hormone in the body. Insulin is p
roduced by the pancreas and if it is not produced or is available in improper quant
ities, then the unused sugar in blood starts to increase and damage the organs. Heart and kidney are
 especially vulnerable to glucose and can work properl
y only if the insulin is processed properly by organs of body. Don’t let the glucose levels rise in 
the body; get a timely diagnos
is so that you can s
tart taking conventional or diabetes ayurvedic cure by Patanjal
i on time. Your body is precious and can get d
estroyed by high glucose levels, protect it now! Sometimes the insulin cannot be processed prop
erly by the body. This also causes the sugar levels to rise. Daily routine and l
ifestyle changes are compulsory for the diabetics to be able to process insulin properly. The immu
ne system may get compromised and other illn
esses may take over if the glucose levels of the body keep rising. P
roper exercise and shedding of ca
lories become a must for proper organ functioning of a diabetic. The calorie count h
as to be kept under control at all times. A proper exercise regime helps in adequate absorp
tion of medicines and appropriate functioning of organs. Many
 people end up eating too much and too heavy if they are 
stressed out. This causes an upheaval in the sugar levels of 
the body. Encourage the person with increased glucose levels to eat more green leafy 
vegetables and reduce the intake of carbohydrates and fats. Guava, j
amun, papaya, musk melon, citric fruits and apple are better than the res
t of the fruits because they contain less of sugar. Bitter gourd, gourd, fenugreek are ver
y good for diabetic people. A diabetic needs to be very careful ab
out the diet and must always carry a sugar sweet 
in the pocket to eat whenever the sugar falls low. Regul
ar sleep is imperative to keep the body functioning proper
ly. Get your sugar tests done if you are urinating frequently. Getting very t
hirsty and feeling excessive fatigue needs to be checked 
at the earliest. Diabetes also leads to skin itching and unhealed wounds. Ayurvedi
c treatments like diabetes ayurvedic cure by Patanjali offer Divya Madhunashini va
ti and Divya Shilajeet Sat that is helpful in controlling Diabetes by taking 
care of the blood sugar levels.
The English Foxhound is considered to be the classic British
 pack hound, which was used in the 6th century to hunt a red fox, usually in large packs. Even 
today, this is one of the favorite pastimes of the English nobility. This breed was never
 designed to be a family companion. On the contrary,
 this is a working dog, always willing to perform any given task. In 1
909, the English Foxhound was officially recognized by the American Kenne
l Club. Height: 23-25 inches Weight: 60-75 pounds Lifespan: 10-13 years
 The English Foxhound dog is medium in size and quite muscular. Its head is bon
y, with a broad skull. The n
ose is well developed. The English Foxhound has large eyes and pendulous ears that are pos
itioned close to his cheeks. Th
e neck should be long and muscula
r. English Foxhounds have powerful jaws with a precisely overlapping scissor bite. Their should
ers are strong and well-muscled, but not too massive. Comparable Breed The Beagle and 
American Foxhound. The English Foxhound has a typical hound 
personality. He is independently-minded and sometimes prone to exc
essive stubbornness. Dogs of this breed are friendly and very lively. They show great t
olerance in dealing with other dogs, which is the essential characteristic of a typical pack do
g. Due to his great passion for the hunt, this the English Foxho
und is not very popular as a family pet. This sturdy dog is usually kept for red fox hun
ting, but it also makes a good watchdog. English Foxhounds do well with children but are not recom
mended for families with very small children. Moreover, they are perfect for fam
ilies who already have other dog breeds. The 
English Foxhounds are generally very healthy. However, thes
e dogs can suffer from canine hip dysplasia, renal disease (kidney disease) and epilepsy. Gene
rally, representatives of this breed are not prone to genetic diseases. The English Foxhound h
as a life expectancy of 10 to 13 years. Weight / Height The male Engli
sh Foxhound dog breed’s height is around 23 – 25 inches and weighs around 60 
and 75 pounds. Female English Foxhound dogs can reach a size
 from 23 – 24 inches and weighs between 60 and 75 pounds. Coat / Care: The English Foxhound is cover
ed with a short coat, which is dense and shiny. This breed comes in a variety of colors, 
including different combinat
ions of white, black and brown. No markings are allowed. 
The short coat is not too demanding
 since English Foxhounds are low shedders. 
Hence, regular brushing is enou
gh. This will reduce the
 hair loss and keep your dog clean. The English Foxhound is very f
riendly and affectionate
. He should undergo early socialization and education, 
which requires patience and co
nsistency. This breed of dog is very agile, courageous and passionate in hunting, which re
quires a strong, dominant coach. English Foxhounds are very social, but since these dogs have a
 great passion for hun
ting and prefer to live with
 other dogs in the pack, they are not suitable for l
iving indoors. In general, the English Foxhound should live together wi
th other dogs in the kennel. This breed could live in the house under 
special conditions. Hence, a lot of movemen
t and mental work are a must for the English Foxho
und, at least 30 to 60 minutes every day. |Origin
:||United Kingdom, Canada|
 |Average size:||Large Dog Breed| |Color:||Combinations of Black, White, T
an| |Energy Level:||Very active worki
ng dog| |Trainability:||This dog is easy to train| |Barking Level:||Low – W
hen Necessary| |Personality:||Sociable, Affectio
nate and Gentle| |AKC 
Dog Ranking:||187th Most popular dog breed| |Good family dog:||Yes, good with socializati
on| |Good with other dogs:||Yes, good with socialization| |Good with children:||Yes – but socializa
tion is essential| |Good with strangers:||Yes – Friendly
 with strangers| |Good apartment dog:||Low – this is not an apartment dog| Photo Credit: cch
o/Flickr
|In this week you will: - 
start setting up your personal learning environment by getting a twitter account, and -
 learn about the formulation
 of the United Nations, its role, structure
 and mandate. In preparation for your fi
rst tutorials next week, you must: - Watch the 2 part l
ecture on the Histor
y of International Cooperation - Do Activity 1 and th
en watch the video on the Structure of the United Nations - Watch the final l
ecture on the Creation of the United Nations If you have time, take a look at 
the extension exercises. Make sure that you write notes as yo
u go and note down any questions 
that you have to raise in tutorials and/or by tweeting out to the group. Lectu
res and Viewings Lecture - History of International Cooperation (Part 1) Lecture - History of
 International Cooperation (Part 2) |What do you think the UN does? - Grab a pen and paper and j
ot down a list of things you think the UN does, based on your general knowledge. - Next watch 
the video presentations below, and jot down anything new that you
 hear - How close was your original list? What oth
er activities or information did you note down as n
ew? - Pick one or two of your observ
ations and tweet out to the gr
oup making sure to add #UOWMUN Structure of the United
 Nations video Lecture - The Creation of the Un
ited Nations
Revisiting Bloom’s Taxonomy In the 1950’s Ben
jamin Bloom and other researchers collaborated to create what is known as Bloom’s
 Taxonomy of cognitive processes. This has been 
revised over the years and includes today six cognitive dimensio
ns: - Remember: recall facts and basic concepts (e.g., define, list, state)
 - Understand: explain ideas or con
cepts (e.g., describe, explain, summarize) - Apply: use information 
in new situations (e.g., solve, complete, change) - Analyze: draw connections among ideas (e.g., con
trast, categorize, connect) - Evaluate: justify a stand or decision
 (e.g., criticize, defend, prioritize)
 - Create: produce new or original work (e.g., design, modify, write) The accompanying verbs ca
n be used to develop and organize learning goals
 and objectives for our curricula, courses, and daily lesson pl
ans. Many UP faculty already use Bloom’s Taxonomy as a guide for planning, but we can en
hance the use of Bloom’s Taxonomy by considering our objectives 
through the lens of knowledge dimens
ions that Anderson and Krathwohl added to the taxonomy in 2001. The four dimens
ions are: - Factual knowl
edge (basic elements to learn in the discipline) - Conceptual knowledge (interre
lationships between basic elements within a larger context) - Pr
ocedural knowledge (methods in the discipline) - Metacognitive knowledge (awareness of how 
learning work in relation to one’s self) Anderson and Krathwohl developed a matrix for combini
ng cognitive processes and knowledge dimensions that can be adapted when planning courses and l
essons. As faculty, we can adapt this matrix in our own lesson plann
ing. Here’s an example from a 300-level applied linguistics cours
e that I teach in the Department of International Languages and Cultures. Basic concept: I
ndividual differences in language learning Knowledge Dimension: Factual
 knowledge Bloom’s Taxonomy Cognitive Process: Remember (Rela
ted actions verbs: define,
 list, state, recall, identify) Learning Goal: Stu
dents can accurately define
 individual differences and list examples. Asse
ssment: Students take a low-stakes quiz in which they define individual differences and provid
e examples they recall from the reading and group work activity. - Stude
nts read section on individual differences in How Languages are Learned res
pond to reading prompts before class. - In class, students work i
n groups to identify i
ndividual differences in written profiles of learners and present their findings. Intersecting with
 multiple knowledge dimensions As faculty, we can also run concepts and theories 
we teach through both multiple knowledge a
nd cognitive process dimensions as we plan instruction. Let’s take, for examp
le, the social cultural theoretical perspectiv
e of second language acquisitio
n from the same applied linguistics course Factual dimension / Remember Instructor provides lear
ning experiences so that students practice recalling defi
nitions of terms and characteristics and elements of the theory. Conceptual dimension / Understand S
tudents participate in learning experiences that guide
 them to start explaining principles and models of the social cultural perspective. It’s important 
to note that at this level, the students are not just
 restating an author’s 
or instructor’s explanation; that wou
ld be remembering. Rather, they are usi
ng concepts, terms, and paraphrasing to explain the concept or theory. 
Procedural dimension / Analyze Eventually, stu
dents point out passages in a research text that i
ndicate the linguistics researcher is
 writing from the social cultural persp
ective of second language learning. They are using their 
knowledge of the theory as an analytical tool. Metacognitive dimension / Appl
y Finally, the instructor can work with students to develop and apply motivationa
l and language learning strategies that are based on a social cultural perspective of second lan
guage learning. The above processes can also be reorganized into a class lesson planning tool. Ap
plication in your teach
ing The combination of Bloom’s Taxonomy 
and knowledge dimensions create a
 powerful approach for your faculty tool
box in support of our efforts to provide the excellent u
ndergraduate education opportunitie
s to our students. For more about deploying Bloom’s Taxonomy and the four dimensions o
f knowledge, check out Laurie Richlin’s Blueprint f
or Learning: Construction College Co
urses to Facilitate, Assess, and Document Learning (
2006), one of the sources of today’s TLC blog entry
. If you would like to explore in 
more detail using dimensions and Bloom’s Taxonomy verbs in a lesson planning fo
rm, download this MS Word version. Jeffrey White directs the Learning Comm
ons in the Shepard Academic Resource Center in Bu
ckley Center 163, where he trains tutors to reach
 Level 1 of the International Tutor Training Program Certification. He also t
eaches German, an applied linguistics course, a
nd a preparation course for study abroad in the Department of Inter
national Languages and Cultures. Jeffrey
 is currently the president-elect of the Northwest College Reading and Le
arning Association. He is happy to meet over coffee or lunch to discuss
 course and lesson design, training, and teaching in
 higher education and can be reached at email@example.com.
Harvard University PRC collaborates with the YMCA to increase children’s physical activity and provi
de healthier food options in afterschool programs. An encyclopedia excerpt describes the history, 
partnerships, and contributi
ons of the PRC Program. Tulane University PRC recognized for coalition
 that conducts activities to improve the conditions for pedestrians in New Orleans, Louisiana
. University of Minn
esota researcher featured in scientific journal for contributions to adolescent health r
esearch. Changes in YMCA Afterschool Programs Increase Children's Physic
al Activity and Healthy Food OptionsHarvard University: Prevention Research Cen
ter on Nutrition and Physical Activity Addresses CDC Winnabl
e Battle: Nutrition, physical activity, and obesit
y YMCA-Harvard Afterschool Food and Fit
ness Project - YMCA learning collaborative
s, an approach to bringing about orga
nizational change, were found to be promising f
or translating obesity prevention science into practices for use in YMCA afterschool prog
rams - Learning collaboratives helped staff develop the skills needed to work toward crea
ting a healthy afterschool environment by achie
ving simple health-related program s
tandards - Before and after studies of selected afterschool programs showed 
significant improvements in the healthfulness of snacks served and the physical
 activity levels of children in these programs www.foodandfun.org, includes ti
p sheets, assessment guides, recipe pac
kets, and snack planning tools to help staff make inexpensive, effective program changes. The
 program was part of a large-scale initiative to improve border h
ealth. The Initiative included components targeting clinicians, schools, persons with diabetes a
nd their families, and the community; Pasos Adelan
te was the community component. The program was developed in partnership with the Mariposa Com
munity Health Center i
n Nogales, Arizona, the 
Regional Center for Border Health, Inc., the We
stern Arizona Area Health Educa
tion Center, and faculty and staff at the U
niversity of Arizona Mel and Enid Zuckerman College of Pu
blic Health. - Menus of snacks and beverages served at 7 YMCA af
terschool programs located in 5 states were collected over
 a 14-month period.6 The quality of snacks and bev
erages were analyzed at baseline (fall 2005), midway (spring 200
6), and post-intervention (fal
l 2006). Compared to baseline values, at
 post- intervention, weekly servings of fruits and vegeta
bles significantly increased (1.3 to 3.9
, p=0.02), while significant decr
eases were seen in weekly servings of desserts (1.3 to 0.5,
 p=0.05), foods with added sugars (3.9 to 2.4, p=0.03), and foods with trans fats (2.6 to
 0.7, p=0.01). Pre-intervention, one site
 served sugar-sweetened beverages; 
post- intervention, no sites did—instead, all sites served water. At baseline,
 each site had achieved at least 1 of the 5 healthy e
ating standards; post-intervention all sit
es had achieved at least 2 of the standards. Althou
gh not statistically significant, average calories in snacks and beverages offered decreased from 30
0.3 kcal before the i
ntervention to 266.9 kcal after. - An analysis of the price and healthfulness of snac
ks served in a sample of 32 YMCA afterschool programs in 4 U.S.
 metropolitan areas found
 that healthful snacks achieving the 5 healthy eating standards were 50% more 
expensive than less-healthful snacks.7 Fruits and canned or frozen 
vegetables contributed to significantly higher snack price. Analyses showed that replacing these i
tems with low-priced fresh vegetables and replacing r
efined grains with whole grains would increase the healthfulness of snacks without caus
ing increases in price. Analyses also identified a ra
nge of repeatedly served, inexpensive, healthful snack
s that were served as part of 
regular, ongoing afterschool programs. Th
us, healthful foods and snack combinations could be served at or below the price of less-healthfu
l snacks. In particular, substituting tap water for 100
% juice produced savings t
hat could be used toward the purchase of healthful foods, such as
 apples. - The physical activity intervention consisted of using the learn
ing collaborative process 
and the Food & Fun After School curriculum.8 The intervention was impleme
nted in 16 afterschool programs in four U.S. metropolitan areas. Sixteen matched 
control afterschool programs were selected from the same
 metropolitan areas for comparison. The control programs were those in 
place at the time the control was selected; the 
amount and level of physical activi
ty of children in these programs varied. Children's physical activity was m
easured by accelerometers worn at baseline (fall 2006) and follow up (sprin
g 2007). Children at intervention sites showed greater increases in minutes of combined mode
rate and vigorous physical activity (10.5 minutes more per da
y, p=0.017) than children in control sites. T
hese differences translated i
nto an average additional energy expenditure of 25 kcal a day for
 a child in an interve
ntion setting. - Centers
 for Disease Control and Prevention. Data and Statistics: Obesity Rates Among All C
hildren in the United Stat
es. http://www.cdc.g
ov/obesity/childhood/data.html. Accessed June 22, 2012 . - Centers for Disease Control and Preve
ntion. Overweight and Obesity: Basics About C
hildhood Obesity. http://www.cdc.gov/obesity/childhood/basics.html. A
ccessed January 29, 2012. - Wang YC, Gortmaker SL, Sobol AM, Kuntz KM. Estimati
ng the energy gap among US children: a counterfactual approach. Pediatrics. 2006;118(
6):e1721-33. - Institute for Healthcare Improvement.The Breakthrough Series: IHI's Colla
borative Model for Achieving Breakthrough I
mprovement. http://www.ihi.org/knowledge/Pages/IHIWhitePapers/ 
- Wiecha JL, Nelson TF, Ro
th BA, Glashagel J, Vaughan L. Disseminating health promotion practices in 
afterschool programs through YMCA learning collaboratives. American Journal of Health Promotio
n. 2010;24(3):190-8. - Mozaffarian RS, Wiecha JL, Roth BA, Nelson 
TF, Lee RM, Gortmaker SL. Impact of an organizational intervention designed to improv
e snack and beverage quality in YMCA after-school programs. American Journal of Public Health. 2
010;100(5):925-32. - Mozaffarian RS, Andry A, Lee RM, Wiecha JL, Gortmaker SL. Price and hea
lthfulness of snacks in 32YMCA aft
er-school programs in 4 US metropolitan areas 2006–2008. Preventing Chron
ic Disease. 2012;9:110097. - Gortmaker SL, Lee RM, Mozaffarian RS
, Sobol A, Nelson TF, Roth BA, Wiecha JL. Effect of an after-school 
intervention on increases in
 children's physical activity. Medicine
 & Science in Sports & Exercise. 2012;44(3):450-7.
A new study by the United
 Nations health agency and its partners has fo
und that fewer newborns are dying worldwide but progress is too slow and Africa in 
particular is being left further behi
nd. “The first week of life is th
e riskiest week for newborns, and yet many countries are only just beginning post-nata
l care programmes to reach mothers and babies at this critical time,” the World Health Organizat
ion (WHO) said in a news release. Newborn deaths decreased from 4.
6 million in 1990 to 3.3 million in 2009, 
and fell slightly faster 
in the years since 2000, according to the study, led b
y researchers from WHO, Save the Children and the London School of Hygiene a
nd Tropical Medicine and published today in the medical journa
l PLoS Medicine. The study, which covers 20 years and all 193 WHO member Stat
es, found that newborn deaths – deaths in the first four weeks of life (neonatal period) – today a
ccount for 41 per cent of a
ll child deaths before the age of five. Almost 99 per of newborn deaths occur in
 the developing world, with more than h
alf taking place in just five large countries – India, Nigeria, Pakistan, China and the
 Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC). India alone has more than
 900,000 newborn deaths per year, nearly 28 per cent of the 
global total, WHO noted. Nigeria, the world’s s
eventh most populous countr
y, now ranks second in newborn de
aths – up from fifth in 1990. Africa has seen the slowest progress of a
ny region in the world, 
with a reduction of just 1 per cent per year, the agen
cy said. Among the 15 coun
tries with more than 39 neonatal deaths per 1,000 live births, 12 were from the WHO African Region
 – Angola, Burundi, Chad, the Central African Republi
c (CAR), DRC, Equatorial Guinea, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Mali
, Mauritania, Mozambique, an
d Sierra Leone – plus Afghanistan, Pakistan and Somalia. At th
e current rate of progress it 
would take the African continent more than 150 
years to reach United States or United Kingdom newborn survival level
s, according to WHO. The agency 
noted that an increase in investmen
t in health care for women and children in the last dec
ade – when the anti-poverty targets 
known as the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) were set – contributed to more rapid progress f
or the survival of mothers and children under the age of five than for ne
wborns. Three quarters of neonatal deaths around the wo
rld are caused by pre-ter
m delivery, asphyxia and severe infections, such as sepsis and pneumonia. WHO pointed o
ut that two thirds or more of these deaths
 can be prevented with existing interventions. “Newborn survival is being lef
t behind despite well-documented, cost-effective solutions to prevent 
these deaths,” says Flavia Bustreo, WHO Assistant Director-G
eneral for Family, Women’s and Children’s Health. 
“With four years to achieve the Millennium Development Goals, mor
e attention and action for newborns is critical,” she said, referring to the 2015 target d
ate for achieving the MDGs.
Meaning of  restore, return to, revert Lea
rn Japanese kanji:  Meaning: restore, return to, revert. 438 of 2,5
00 most used kanji in newspapers. How to write 復 - stroke order: Stro
ke Count: 12 Access ALL extra downloads, ebooks, and s
tudy guides by supporting JLPT Sensei on P
atreon. JLPT N2 Study Guide JLPT N2 Grammar Master [e-book] Complete Study Guide This e-book includ
es every grammar point you need to know in order to pass the JLPT N2, with detailed 
usage notes and numerous example sentences
. Pages: 417, lessons: 195
THE SUPERNATURAL POWER OF THE ARK OF THE COVENANT AND OTHER ANCIENT ASTRO
NAUT MYSTERIES Recent programs on the History Channel and elsewhere on c
able television have helped popularize the concept that extraterrestrials have been visi
ting Earth since time immemorial and have been responsible for 
many of the advancements of human civilization. Once the mainstay of writers such as 
Erich von Daniken, Brinsley Le Poer Trench and W.R. Drake, the concept has 
since inspired big budget movie epics and tel
evision shows like “Ancient Aliens” an
d, more recently, “In Search Of Aliens,” hosted by the "wild-haired" Giorgios Tsoukalos. Steven Sp
ielberg first burned images 
of the Ark of the Covenant into our collective imagi
nation when his 1981 mega-hit “Raiders of the Lost Ark” was unleashed upon the pub
lic. The movie popularized the mysterious Ark for a more se
cular audience as Harrison Ford found himself in conflict with Nazi archaeologists who sought 
to conquer the world by using the supernatural powers of the 
Ark as a terrorist weapon. Recently, journalist Timothy Beckley and his always pr
olific publishing house Inner Light - Global Co
mmunications set out to explore the mysteries of
 the Ark and other super-weapons of antiquity to determine if the “sky 
gods” were behind the development of these highly advanced implements of dest
ruction – or if humankind
 had somehow been able to conjure them up on their own. Many qu
estions arose, which Beckley and crew attempted to sort ou
t during the course of their dissertation, such as: When God instructed Moses
 and the Israelites to construct the Ark of the Covenant
, could they have understood the awesome, death-dealing technology 
it contained? Did ancient India, like the Old Testament Jews, possess weapons o
f mass destruction? The new book conten
ds that nuclear weapons or a method of kinetic
 bombardment were a standard component o
f the arsenal of people living many thousands of years ago. Read about weapons that appear on th
e surface to be rather commonplace, such as a simple sword or bow
 and arrow, but which are in fact supernaturally transformed by the gods into m
iraculous instruments of combat. Does archeologica
l evidence exist today that proves nuclear war t
ook place in ancient times, negating ou
r belief that atomic weapons did not ex
ist until the 20th century? Was space travel another forgotten achievem
ent of a people long ago consumed by the passing mi
llennia? Did they leave spaceports behind as a sign of the technological prowess that 
helped them reach the stars? I
n his introduction to the n
ewly released book from Global Commu
nications, “The Ark of the Covenant and Other Secret We
apons of the Ancients,” editor and author Timothy Green Beckley writes: “The Ark of the Covenant has
 always been an object of great wonderment. Bi
blical scholars have debate
d its uses for years, while the public fantas
izes about its powers. Moviemakers have attempted t
o tell the story of this gleaming gold artifact in epic fictionalized form. Made to be a recepta
cle in which the Ten Commandments gi
ven Moses could be safeguarded, the Ark also ha
d the power to destroy the enemies of the Israelites.” Beckley goes on to explain that he met 
researcher and writer David Medina in the 1970s when Beckley was vi
siting the UK to speak before the House of Lords UFO group. Medina present
ed Beckley with his privately printed manuscript on the Ark and asked Beckley’s hel
p in giving it wider distribution. Beckl
ey subsequently published Medina’s book and was pleased with the limited but positive reception
 it received. Recently, Beckley decided to publish a new edition, thi
s time with additional chapters written by Beckley’s usua
l robust stable of writers. The new book focuses not just on the Ark 
of the Covenant but also examines other high-tec
h weapons created by what we have been taught are vastly more primitive societies. Thus the “Other
 Secret Weapons of the Ancients” part of the new book’s title. THE ARK AND ITS ENIGMATI
C CAPABILITIES The book opens with the r
eprint of David Medina’s origi
nal text. Medina gives an account of the bui
lding of the Ark of the Covenant, based on verses from the 25th chapter of the Book of Exodus, as we
ll as describing other elements that went along with it, such as the tent specifically con
structed to house the Ark. It fell to Moses’ brother Aaron, in his role as h
igh priest, to tend to various ce
remonies and rituals related to the Ark. Aaron and his sons, who often assisted their
 father with his priestly duties, were required to wear special clo
thing while in the A
rk’s presence. It has long been speculated, by Medin
a and numerous other writers before and since, that the special clothing
 was not a simple matter of priestly ceremonial garb but was i
nstead specifically intended
 to protect Aaron and his sons from high levels of radiation.
 Because of that danger, no one else was p
ermitted near the Ark. There are
 incidents recorded in the Bible in which disobedient Israe
lites ventured close to the Ark anyway and were subsequently struck de
ad by the device or died lingering deaths fro
m radiation sickness. It is also theorized that the Ark could generate high voltage electric
ity and serve as a two-way radio to the heavens
. How did some pieces of acacia wood, some gold overlay and a few other components readily
 available to the Israelites, who were essentially wandering nomads in the des
ert, accomplish this technological wonder? That is 
part of the fascination 
of Medina’s analysis of
 the Ark of the Covenant and the details are better left for those reading the Global 
Communications book to discover for themselves. THE UFOS OF IND
IA AND THEIR DEADLY PAYLOAD But the formidable Ark was not the only high-tech weapon
 of the ancient world. As part of Beckley’s aforementioned stable of writers, I
 contributed a chapter to the new boo
k on the weapons of ancient India. A great deal of the mytholog
y of ancient India is taken up with a form of flying craft called 
a “vimana,” whose origin is unclear. 
Some Sanskrit writings say the vimanas were manmade but available 
to only a rich and elite part of the population. Other writings say the vimanas bel
onged to the gods and served to house ascended holy ones in luxury dwellings in the sky. But wha
tever that mystery may i
nvolve, the relevance to the new book lies 
in the fact that the vimanas were used to deliver and deploy super-weapons si
milar to our nuclear missiles. In the midst of a conf
lict between two ancient royal families, called the Kuruhshetra War, a project
ile called a “Brahmastra” was launched from a vimana flying overhead. Accor
ding to the scripture called the “Mahabharata,” the missile, also called the “Iron Thunde
rbolt,” produced “an incandescent column of smoke and fire, as brilliant as a t
housand suns,” and reduced the enemy combatants to ashes. “The corpses wer
e so burned as to be unrecognizable. The hair and nails fell out; pottery broke without 
cause; and the birds turned white. After a few hours, all foodstuffs were infected.
” All of which is fami
liar to modern readers as the 
consequences of the radiati
on-saturated aftermath of a nuclear blast. As an eerie addendum, 20th century 
archeologists uncovered evidence that certain cities in the 
Indus Valley region had
 been completely destroyed, wit
h people lying dead in the streets. Some kind of “sudden doom” had de
cimated these cities, killing the entire population and leaving no survivor
s to bury the dead. LETHAL FORCE WITHOUT THE MESSY C
ONSEQUENCES There is little disagreement among sch
olars of the subject that some kind of death-dealing technology was ava
ilable to the ancients that is ea
sily comparable to nuclear weaponry. But author Olav Phil
lips begs to differ about all that. While he refers to the same passages o
f the Mahabharata as most scholars do, Phillips argues that the weapons
 in question may not have been nuclear. The “Iron Thunderbolt”
 of the Kuruhshetra War ma
y instead have been an ex
ample of “kinetic bombardment,” Phillips contends, or the use of 
super-dense chunks of material dropped at terminal velocity from orbit or high 
altitude. Kinetic bombardment would produce the same
 effects as a small-scale nuclear device minus 
the radiation. Those effects would include an enormous fireball and a tremendou
s shockwave that would radiate outwards from the impact site. Phillips believes this explains the 
decimated cities discovered by archeologists in the Indus Valley. “The su
perheated shockwave and concu
ssive force wall,” Phillips writes, “would explain the collapse of structures and the s
corching.” Phillips goes on to say that kinetic weapons a
re easy to target since their firing angle can be computed fro
m orbit. He says modern weapons developers are working on something called “Project Tho
r” or the “Rods From God,” a system which hurls telephone pole-size
d tungsten rods from orbit for the purpose of targeted, non-nuclear strikes. Military plann
ers have been working on the i
dea since the 1950s, and there exists a 2003 US Air Force report suggesting that a tungsten cylind
er six meters long impacting at Mach 10
 has the equivalent kinetic energy of 11.5 tons of TNT. Th
e idea is to deploy a lethal weapon with mass destructive force that does not have a long l
asting global environmental impact. Philli
ps believes the combatants in the Mahabharata must have reached a
 similar conclusion, that a large-scale nuclear exchan
ge would permanently destroy the very
 land they seek to possess, so they too opted for a devastating weapon that would not c
ause long-term ecological damage. SWOR
DS WITH A MAGICAL EDGE Publisher Timothy Green Beckley takes up the subject of magical s
words, swords that were not mere steel attached to a hilt but were in
stead handed down by the gods to aid mortals in combat. One finds this idea in n
umerous Greek myths, such as when Pers
eus was given a sword by the gods to sla
y the monster Medusa, she who had hair made of snakes and scal
es invincible to human-made weapons. Also included is a brief retelling of the legend of King Arthu
r’s sword “Excalibur” and how it blinded his opponents with its b
rightness. Meanwhile, the scabbard that stored Excalibur had healing powers and would prevent its
 bearer from bleeding to death. Excalibur can only be brandished for good purposes
 or it is useless. It prevents those who wield it from lying and inspires courage in all w
ho follow in its path. Well-known writers Brad Steiger and Tim R. S
wartz provide chapters for “The Ark of the Covenant and
 Other Secret Weapons of the Ancients” as well. Steiger talks about the
 archeological evidence
 found throughout the world for prehistoric nuclear war while Swartz declar
es that the ancients may have achieved space trav
el and bolsters that contention with still more archeological 
evidence. “The Ark of the Covenant and Other Secret Weapons of the Ancients” is profusely illustrate
d, thanks mainly to the efforts of writer and graphic designer William Kern, who
 packs the pages with Biblical art relevant to the sto
ry of the Ark as well as paintings depicting the f
lying craft and weaponry of Indian mythology. The book is an excellent and original approach 
to the subject of Ancient Astronauts and their technological revelation
s to early mankind that will have you shaking your head in wonderment even as you shudder at th
e destructive force we are capable of with a little hel
p from above. The Ark of the Covenant and Other Secret Weapons of the Ancients By David Medin
a, Timothy Green Beckley, Sean Casteel, O
lav Phillips, Brad Steiger and Tim R. Swartz Signs and Symbols of the Second Coming, E
xpanded and Revised Edition By Sean Casteel Alien Space Gods of Ancient Greece and Rome – Revela
tions of the Oracle of Delphi By W. Raymond Drake, Timothy Green Beckley and Sean Cas
teel Legacy of the Sky People: The Extraterrestrial Origin of Adam and Eve; The Garden of Eden; 
Noah’s Ark and the Serpent Race By the 8th Earl of Clancarty, with Nick Redfern, Tim Swartz, Sean C
asteel, William Kern and Timothy Green Beckley
Today camping is primarily a recreati
onal activity and is a
n activity in which people live temporarily in th
e outdoors. Camping provides an opportuni
ty to experience nature firsthan
d. Campers participate in fishing, hunting, swimming, pla
nt study, bird and wildlife watching, and nature photography. Just as 
importantly, camping helps people escape the stress of city life. It provides 
physical benefits when it involves hiking to, from, and around a campsite, a
nd many outdoor enthusiasts believe that camping instils confidence in youngsters and offe
rs older campers opportunities to ch
allenge themselves in unfamiliar surroundin
gs. Just as there are several types of camping, there are also various types of campsites where ca
mpers can make their temporary home. Cam
psites are found in forests and deserts, on high plains and mountains, and along lakes
ides and ocean beaches. For more information check a local camping guide. Tents are portable shelt
ers made of lightweight fabrics. They come in a variety o
f shapes and sizes. The most popular shape is the dome, or freestanding model.
 This model is easy to set up and does not require support from tree limbs or other objects. M
any tents are designated two-person, three-person, and so on, according to how many adults can com
fortably sleep inside them. Tents range from small models that sleep just one camper to la
rger models that can accommodate
 groups of 12. Before purchasing a tent, campers should decide when and 
where they would use it. Summer-only camping does not require a tent built to withstand intense moun
tain winds. Camping in areas where it often rains calls for a tent with
 a watertight exterior, or rain fly, that keeps those inside it 
dry. A tent for warm weather camping should have plen
ty of vents for air circulati
on. A cover of netting over those vents prevents insects from entering. A ground cloth—a piece o
f waterproof material placed between the tent floor and the ground—helps pro
tect the tent from d
amage and keep moisture out. After buying a tent, practice setting it up. Pr
acticing at home makes pitching the tent in windy or rainy conditions much easier.
In this Section 4113.0 Infectious Diseases (non-HIV) Tue
sday, November 10, 2009: 10:
30 AM In Bolivia it was discovered that Sodium Estibogluconate, even in programs with su
pervised treatment, has a high incidence of recurrences in children less th
an five years of age. As a result, use of Sodium Estiboglu
conate in this age group should be reviewed and effectiveness of othe
r medicines should be compared. In India it was discovered that DF prevention efforts emphasizin
g the eradication of larval Aedes aegypti, patient education, and adherence to a standardized serol
ogical reporting system should revolve around 
the monsoon and post-monsoon periods. In China, a 
policy implication was discovered:
 While acute care for ailments such as cold/influenza does not show a s
ubstantial impact on family burden, more attention should be drawn to the chronic illness. Fo
r the Gambia case, it was found that distance traveled to wat
er source, time spent collecting water per trip
, the frequency of water collection withi
n the day, availability of water for face washing, and daily 
frequency of face washing may all impact household F
inally in the Dominican Republic, Imme
diate medical attentio
n is required for suspected Dengue symptomology to avoid progression of thrombocytopenia or deh
ydration to shock. trachoma. Session Objectives: In Bolivia a program describes that utilization 
of Sodium Estibogluconate for Leishmaniasis treatment in children less than five years of a
ge bears with it a relatively hig
h percentage of recurrences. In Ind
ia, investigators explain the need for patient education and p
reventive measures that are heedful of dengue f
ever seasonal predilection. A historical study in China identifies trends 
of direct economic burden of cold/influenza on individuals going to different facilities for treat
ment during 1989-2006.In Gambia, a demonst
ration of potential rel
ationship between water supply and trachoma continues. Finally, the perception of risk and respect
ive behavior changes toward mosquito pr
otection utilized by citizens in the Dominican Republic was described. Elv
ira Beracochea, MD, MPH See individual abstracts for presenting
 author's disclosure statem
ent and author's information. 
Organized by: International Health CE Credits: Medical (CME), Health Edu
cation (CHES), Nursing (CNE), Public Healt
h (CPH) See more of: International Health
NEXT UP ON this. The following is an excerpt from an article w
ritten by Dr Paul Harrison from Deakin University’s Centre for Employee and Con
sumer Wellbeing. News that consumers in Adelaide are willing to pay $400 for a tast
e of Wagyu steak sounds ridiculous but, in reality, wanting something that others in your particu
lar group can’t have is part of being human. Have you ever bought an
 expensive perfume, or some
 exclusive jewellery, a pair of designer shoes or an Elk bag? Many of these items may no
t be considered by you to be luxur
y products, but they are certainly products of desire. In reality, nobody n
eeds a $700 pair of shoes or a retro $2000 fridge (although we all need a $60
00 toaster), but these products trans
cend their rational utility. They
 have meaning beyond their function. They are objects of desire that help us to commun
icate to ourselves and others who we are. Desire, status and luxu
ry are concepts that have be
en explored for hundreds 
of years. In 1899, sociologist and economist Thorstein Veblen suggested th
at the act of buying expensive things was a means for people to communicate th
eir social status to others. He suggested that the purchase of luxury goods, expensive houses 
or attending exclusive soirees was a form of ‘wealth signalling’, or what others have ca
lled ‘peacocking’. French philosopher Pi
erre Bourdieu took this interpretation a step further in 
1979, by suggesting that the objects and things we consume are a means of communicati
ng to others a symbolic hierarchy to enforce our distance 
or distinction from other classes of society. Consumer preferences are rarely the out
come of some innate, individualistic choices of the human intellect, but 
a more complex, somewhat unclear desire to be part of something bigger than ourselves. Consump
tion does not occur in a vacuum. The items we buy, the things we do, the people we associate with
 and the places we visit all possess meaning for us as human beings. Even our homes are replet
e with meaning; many of the things that
 we own provide meaning for both our self-identity and our social identity. Many goods play mult
iple roles, functionally and psychologically. A car has both s
ymbolic status and practical usefulness – it can demonstrate to others who we are, but it also gets
 us to work. Goods can lead to experiential and social outcomes, such a
s the ongoing joy obtained from the
 purchase of an espresso machine, and learning how to make the perfect coffee. 'The items
 we buy, the things we do, the people we associate with and the places we visit all possess mea
ning for us as human beings.' Dr Paul Harrison, For most of us the desire to
 distinguish ourselves
 as individuals amongst our peers is built into our DNA. An
d what we consume helps to make clear that distin
ction. The fact that we are exposed to, and seek out stories about, success a
nd wealth, has been shown to actually influence how badly we wa
nt luxury items. A study
 from Arizona University published in 2016 in the Journal of Consumer Psychology found that simp
ly reading a success story increased a desire 
for luxury brands amongst participants. An
 interesting element of ma
ny of these studies is that media portrayals of wealth on TV, on the news and even in
 social media have been sho
wn to define consumers’ worlds by creating an
 image in their minds that biases the
ir views of reality. In one study
, the researchers found that people who watched more television assumed higher estimates of the
 average level of wealth and affluence in the US, and led th
em to believe that they were missing out on the 
tennis courts, private planes and swimming 
pools that they saw represented 
in the media. But even for those
 on low incomes, products are more significant than their simple 
utilitarian capacity. We buy goods to enhance our
 lives. We consume to make ourselves feel better. We give the brands we buy meaning by inco
rporating them into our day-to-day exist
ence. But we do it predominantly t
o fit in with our group, whether it’s a $2000 pair of shoes or a spoiler for our hotted up ca
r. We use our products to fit in,
 but also to remind ourselves that we are just a
 little bit better than most of our group. Viewed through a rational lens, it is pretty tric
ky to explain why someone wo
uld pay $3000 to watch an opera that finishes where it began (Wa
gner’s Ring Cycle), o
r $400 for a steak full of 
intramuscular fat (Wagy
u) or $1.4 million for a red car that allegedly goes very fast (Ferrar
i LaFerrari). But being human is about m
ore than being rational. F
ind out more about the research being conducte
d in Deakin University’s Centre for Employee and Consumer Wellbeing. This piece first appeared on Dr
 Harrison’s website Tribal Insight, where you can find essays, discussions and the latest research
 and theory in the world of social psychology, consumerism and marketing. Subscr
ibe for a regular dose of technology, innovation, culture and personal developme
nt.
Wednesday, October 19, 2011: 8:30 AM 205 C (Minneapolis 
Convention Center) Membranes have played increasingly importa
nt roles in fuel cells. For fuel cells, membranes are involved in fuel 
processing and as proton-excha
nge and hydroxyl ion-exchange materials in membrane electrode assemblies. In fuel proces
sing, CO2- and H2-selective membr
anes can be used both in membrane reactor configuration to enhance water gas 
shift reaction and in the membrane permeation to purify H2, as well as O2-selective me
mbranes can be employed for O2-enriched air production to increase (1) 
the H2 concentration in the reformed gas from the autothermal reformi
ng or partial oxidation/gasification of liquid fuel (e.g., gasoline, diesel and/or jet 
fuel), natural gas, biomass or coal an
d (2) the performance o
f fuel cell on the cathode side. Proton-e
xchange and hydroxyl ion-exchange membranes and membrane electrode assemblies, includin
g cost-effective Nafion replaceme
nts particularly for 120 – 180oC and new membranes for alkaline fuel cells, are critical to the wide
spread use of fuel c
ells. Original and review papers on membranes fo
r fuel cell applicati
ons are sought, including (1) fuel processin
g, (2) proton-exchange membranes, (3) hydroxyl ion-e
xchange membranes, an
d (4) membrane electrode assemblies. We will include papers on fundamental understanding through th
eory, modeling, and controlled experiments as well as engineering, applicat
ions and scale-up studies.
 Electrochemical Fundamentals (01E) See more of this Group/Topical: Se
parations Division
About the Book When Americans remember him at all, they no doubt think of Knut H
amsun (1859–1952) as the author of Hunger or as the Norwegian who, along with Vidkun Qui
sling, betrayed his country by supporting the Nazis during World War II. Yet Hamsun, winner 
of the Nobel Prize in 1920 for his novel The Growth 
of the Soil , was and remains one of the most important and influential novelists of h
is time. Knut Hamsun Remembers A
merica is a collection of thirteen essays and stories based largely on Hams
un’s experiences during the four years he 
spent in the United State
s when he was a young man.
 Most of these pieces have never been published before in an English translation, 
and none are readily availa
ble. Hamsun’s feelings about America and American ways were complex. For the most part, they
 were more negative 
than positive, and they found e
xpression in many of his wr
itings—directly in his reminiscences and indirectly in his fi
ction. In On the Cultural Life of Modern America , his first major book, he portrayed the United 
States as a land of gross and greedy m
aterialism, populated by illiterates who were utterly lacking in artistic originali
ty or refinement. Although the pieces in this collection are not all anti-American,
 most of them emphasize the strang
eness and unpleasantness, a
s the author saw it, of life i
n what he called Yankeeland. Arranged chronologically, 
the pieces fall into three categories: Critical Reporting, Memory and Fantasy, and M
ellow Reminiscence. The Critical Reporting section includes articles that appeared in Norwegian or
 Danish newspapers soon after each of Hamsun’s two visits to America 
and that give his views on a variety of American subjects, 
and includes an essay devoted to Mark Twain. Memory and Fantasy comprises narratives of 
life in America, most of which are presented as personal ex
periences but which actually are blends of fact and fiction. Mellow Reminiscence includes
 later and fonder re
collections and impressions 
of the United States. The pieces in thi
s collection provide variations on a th
eme that runs through much of A
merican history—European criticism of American ways. They give vivid, at times distorted, pictures 
of life as it was in the United Stat
es. They tell us something about the development
 of the worldview of a man who became a great writer
, only to jeopardize his reputation by defending the Nazi oppr
essors of his own people. Knut Hams
un Remembers America will appe
al to anyone interested in the history of American civiliz
ation or, more specifically, in the history of anti-Americanism. Rich
ard Nelson Current is the author or editor of many books, including Li
ncoln’s Loyalists: Union Soldiers from the Confederacy and Those Terrible Carpetbaggers. Currently 
a resident of Natick, Massachus
etts, he is University Disting
uished Professor, Emeritus, University of North 
Carolina at Greensboro.
In the UK, SSADM is a most commonly used computer application for development
 purpose. Moreover, this application is mostly utilized for the government computing pro
jects in UK. In Europe, 
it is widely being ado
pted by most public sectors than governmen
t organizations. The S
SADM is in the public sector and is previously specified in British S
tandards as BS7738. The name “Structured Systems Analysis and Design Method” is a 
system advance to the analysis and design of both management and information 
systems. SSADM was created for the CCTA a UK government of %uFB01ce considered the 
use of the growing technology in governmen
t from 1980 onwards. These key words are 
at the moment Registered Tr
ade Marks of the Of%uFB01ce of G
overnment Commerce (OGC), which is in the United Kingdom Trea
sury. SSADM is defined as a waterfall technique that an Inf
ormation System design can be derived. Again, SSADM can be pe
rceived to symbolize a pinnacle of the precise document-led approach to system design. It is differ
entiated with contemporary Rapid Application Development methods. The SSADM is chasing the water
fall life cycle model that is staring in order t
o study physical design stage during development. One of the core features of the SSADM i
s that it includes intense invo
lvement in the requirements analysis stage. The clients are made
 to sign off from every stage that is completed
 ensuring the requirements are fulfilled. Moreov
er, the users are offered clear and easy to understand data
 that include a number of diagrammatic representation
s regarding the system. The SSADM will divide the development projects into several stages, mo
dules, steps and tasks. Furthe
rmore, the initial and primary model that is 
developed and formulated in SSADM 
is the data model. This met
hod is considered as a part of requirement gathering a
nd consists of well-designed stage
s, steps and products. SSADM Benefits and Drawbacks The benefit of SSADM is that it util
izes three techniques in order to determine the inf
ormation system viability. One of the major benefits of
 SSADM is the incorpor
ation of three techniqu
es that will determine 
the viability of informat
ion systems. Likewise, the 
entity identification and thei
r relationship in the system are verified by logical data modeling. Furtherm
ore, data flow modeling te
chnique demonstrates data modification from one state to another form, occupying space for data and 
entities that transmit
 it in the systems along with the routes that 
are responsible for data flows. In addition, event-modeling credentials demonstrate the impac
t of these entities within the business and their information systems. Theref
ore, these three procedure
s and perspectives are offered the more complete and precise model. The p
robability of minimizing informat
ion readiness at the initi
al stages of the project is enhanced by
 examining and analyzing a thorough review of the
 system. Likewise, the occurrence in the system occurs due to poor design. Moreover, SSADM 
is regularly used in the United Kingdom; team members associate
d with the project are fami
liar with the processes and procedures. SSADM methodolo
gy is a structured approach that develops and deploys controls on all procedures perta
ining to data creation. Likewise, this is the core objective of SSADM as it gives slight r
oom for mistakes and it is also
 the main reason of its adoption and popularity within the UK. Ho
wever, the error free structure is linked to some constraints. 
One can predict that the necessities of the system may chang
e at each stage during the software de
velopment process. As SSADM is constructed on the basis of 
data analysis if any changes are identifie
d after the analysis stage, system suggested by the data c
an be defective. Moreover, for s
upporting business, SSADM is cl
osely aligned with critical business fu
nctions of an organization. Some of the attributes for SSADM support
ing business functions includes enhance
d quality by reviewing every stage of the software development process and
 meeting the customer requirements precisely by reviewing requirement analysis stage. The time
 and volume must be adequate at the disposal for the completion of e
very stage of the development proc
ess. Moreover, the radically ch
anging situation in bus
iness happens because SSADM do not the changes available in
 the specification after the completion of the review stage. For considering long te
rm benefits of SSADM, overall quality of information services within the organization 
is enhanced. Likewise, SSADM use is also ado
pted by government organizations and initially it was developed to focus on thre
e kinds of organizations and 
government projects as these projects have adequate time and
 resources to align with the nature of SSADM methodology. The 
greatest drawback related to the SSAD
M system is that it use more time than other system. It is difficult for a business orga
nization to generate the information system by a due date because SSADM takes too much time 
to analyze the projects. There is a monumental suspension 
among the initiation of the project and the deployment of the system. If the staff members of any
 organization are not fully qualified in the SS
ADM techniques, the business will need
 to spend more period and curr
ency on training their employees. A framework is provided in order to describe projects th
at suited for managing the projects related to SSADM. In fact, SSADM divides an a
pplication development projects into modules, stage
s, steps and tasks. SSADM’s objectives are listed below: Enhances project managemen
t and control. Makes goo
d and effective use of experienced and inexperienced development employ
ees. Ensures better quality systems. Projects are flexible related to the loss of employees.
 Projects that are supported by computer-based
 tools for instance computer-aided s
oftware engineering systems are enabled. For better commu
nications among participants of the project, a framework is create
d that covers all elements of the life cyc
le of a system. Furthermore, it starts from the feasibility study stage up to t
he production of a physical design. A number of techniques,
 procedures, and conventions are set out by SSADM for each an
d every stage in ord
er to record and communicate the information pertaining to in textual and diagrammatic forms. In 
addition, SSADM is considered the most comprehensive 
model and its characteristics regarding the projects a
re such that it only utilizes those elements of SSADM appropriate to the project. A number o
f CASE tool providers maintain SSADM. 
SSADM is a waterfall metho
d whereby Information System design can be derived. SSADM can 
be perceived symbolize a pinnacle of the precise document-led approach to system desig
n. This method is distinguish
ed with contemporary Rapid Application Development methods such
 as DSDM. SSADM incorporates five phases as they can also be precisely broken down fur
ther into sub-phases. They include the following: Feasibility: To decide whether it i
s cost effective to go further on with the system and
 whether it is actua
lly promising. These are some of the sub-phases under
 the feasibility study: Prepare for the feasibility study Define the problem Create feasibi
lity report Identifying of the requirements 
and needs related to the system an
d modeling these requests in terms of the procedures carried out. The sub-phases under the r
equirement analysis: Inv
estigation of Current Environment Establish
 analysis framework Investigate and define requirements Investigate curre
nt processing Investigate current data Derive
 logical view of current services Assemble investigates results Busi
ness system ways Define and identify business system op
tions Choose business system ways or options
 Identify Requirement Specification The fu
nctional and non-functional necessities are
 determined in detail. The sub-phases under th
e requirement specification: Definition of Requirements Define required sy
stem processing Develop required data model Derive system functions Enhance required data model De
velop specification prototypes Develop processing specif
ication Confirm system objectives Assemble requirements specification Logical System
 Design Specification Technical systems options are produced and the logical design of the syst
em is created. This consist the design of update and 
enquiry processing. The sub-pha
ses under logical system design are: Technical system options Define technical sy
stem options Select technical system options Define physical design module De
fine user dialogues Define update processes Define enquiry process Assemble logical design The
 logical system measurement and technical system specification is utilized to des
ign a physical database and set of pr
ogram specifications. The sub-phases under physical design are: Prepare for physic
al design Create physical data design Optimize physical data desi
gn Complete function specification Co
nsolidate process data interface Create function component implementation map SSADM provi
des numerous benefits as well as drawbacks in terms of de
livering projects on time. In order to develop a system for a medium-si
zed business organization, a comparatively small information
 system must be created. There are better solutions for the developmen
t of information system. On the contrary, there are limited resources available in a medi
um-sized business organization therefore, it should be consider
ed utilizing an off-the-shelf product that is low cost and
 time consuming. Moreover, stages, objectives, steps, techniques, bene
fits and drawbacks are also discussed in detail. Essay Writing Service Features Our ExperienceNo
 matter how complex your assignment is, we can find the right 
professional for your spec
ific task. My Essay Gram
 is an essay writing c
ompany that hires only the smartest m
inds to help you with your projects. Our expertise allows us
 to provide students with high-quality academic writing, editing & p
roofreading services. Free revision policy$10 F
ree bibliography & reference$8 Free title page$8 How Our Essay Writing Service Work
s First, you will need to complete an order form. It's not difficult but, in ca
se there is anything you find not to be clear, you may always call
 us so that we can guide you through it. On the order form, you will n
eed to include some basic information concerning your order: subject
, topic, number of pages, etc. We also encourage our clients to upload any relevant informa
tion or sources that will help.Complete the order form 
Once we have all the information and instructions that we
 need, we select the most suitab
le writer for your assignment. While everything see
ms to be clear, the writer, who has com
plete knowledge of the subject, 
may need clarification from you. It is at that point that you would recei
ve a call or email from us.Writer’s assignment As soon as the writer has fini
shed, it will be delivered both to the website and to your email address so t
hat you will not miss it. If your deadline i
s close at hand, we will place a call to you to make sure that you receive the paper on 
time.Completing the order and download
1A kind of gelatin obtained from fish, especially sturgeon, and used in making jellies,
 glue, etc. and for fining real ale. More example sentences - T
he animal kingdom was represente
d by gelatin in the form of meat stock; isinglass; and hartshorn. - Antonin pour
ed the thickening isinglass alternate
ly into the fruit juice and the almond milk. 
- Sometimes the wood surface was prepared with a
 coating of gesso or isinglass diluted in water with a little white pigment added. mid 16th c
entury: alteration (by association with glass) of obsolete Dutch huysenblas 'sturgeon's bladder
', from huysen 'sturgeon' + blas 'bladder'. Definition of 
isinglass in: - The US English dict
ionary
Description: By far, the most simplistic way to print in the Linux operatin
g system is to send the file to be printed directly to the
 printing device. One way to do this is to use the cat command. As the root user, one could do 
something like # cat thesis.txt > /dev/lp In
 this case, /dev/lp is a symbolic link to the actual printing device---be it a dot-matrix, la
ser printer, typesetter, or plotter. (S
ee ln(1) for more information on symbolic links.) For the purpose of security,
 only the root user and users in the same group as the print daemon are ab
le to write directly to the printer. This is why comman
ds such as lpr, lprm, and lpq have to be used to access the printer. Becau
se of this, users have to use lpr to print a file. The lpr command takes care o
f all the initial work
 needed to print the file, and then it hands con
trol over to another program, lpd, the line printing daemon. The line pri
nting daemon then tells the printer how to pri
nt the file. When lpr is executed, it first copies
 the specified file to a ce
rtain directory (the spool directory) where the file remains until lpd prints it. Once lp
d is told that there is a file to print, it will spawn a copy of itself (what we progr
ammers call forking). This copy will print our file while the original copy waits for more r
equests. This allows for multiple job
s to be queued at once. The syntax of lpr(1) is a very familiar one, $ lpr [ options ] [ filename ..
. ] If filename is not specified, lpr expects input to com
e from standard input (usually the keyboard, or another program's output). This enables 
the user to redirect a comman
d's output to the print spooler. As such, $ cat thesis.txt | lpr $ pr -l60 thesis.txt | lpr The lpr
 command accepts sever
al command-line arguments that allow a user to control how it wo
rks. Some of the most widely used arguments are: -Pprinter specifies the printer to use,
 -h suppresses printing of the burst page, -s creates a sy
mbolic link instead o
f copying the file to the spool directory (us
eful for large files), and -#num specifies the number of copies to print.
 An example interaction with lpr might be something like $ lp
r -#2 -sP dj thesis.txt This command will create a symbolic link to the file 
thesis.txt in the spool directory for the printer named dj, 
where it would be processed by lpd. It would then print a seco
nd copy of thesis.txt. For 
a listing of all the options that lpr will recognize, see lpr(1). R
elated: banner, cancel, lpc, lprint, lpd(8), lprintq/lpq(1), lprm, pr(1), print
cap(5), symlink
As more and more research comes out on blended learning, 
clearly student interaction is a topic that cannot be ignored. Witho
ut sufficient quality an
d quantity of student
 interaction, any form of online learning, especially b
lended learning models, have little chance of 
success. Dziuban, Ha
rtman, and Mehaffy (2014) obser
ve that: Blended learning, in all its various representations, has as its funda
mental premise a simple idea: link the best technological
 solutions for teaching and learning with the best human resources….encourag[ing] the development 
of highly interactive and col
laborative activities that can be accompli
shed only by a faculty member in a mediated setting. (p.322) In 
creating a blended course model, here are recommendations I have to
 maximize student interaction. In the online component of the course, have th
ese activities planned: a. Syllabus review with a discussion 
board activity where students weigh in on the syllabus and their own b. 
Student profile creation wh
ich facilitates student-to-student interaction 
c. Video viewings d. Quiz or application of learning (This could be the evaluation of a learning
 object needed to complete the final proj
ect of the course) e. Reflection writing These activities in the online component of a course
 demonstrate the following: “In the best of circumstances technology 
allows professors to offload responsibilities that
 can be taken up by technology.” Dzuiban, Hartman, and Mehaffy( 2014). In the face-to-face comp
onent of the class: a. Have a synchronous weekly chat that centers arou
nd the main topic of the week and allows time
 for questions b. Have a final fac
e-to-face meeting where students (or groups) deliver their final presentations for the course 
with an opportunity for peer review The face-to-face components of a blended cou
rse tap into interaction as a human n
eed which is closely tied to intrinsic motivation. Synchronous act
ivities and meetings 
can provide a sense of community and the necessary connections that hold an 
online (or blended course together). In this community setting, it is i
mportant to consider who the students 
will be expressing themselves to in their presentations. Students should be prepared to 
make their case, express their opinions and a
nswer questions from peers and instructors. Not only are these skills valuable i
n an academic setting where students are working toward a degre
e, but they can also be considered part of what it means to be career-read
y. Whether activities are online or face-to-face, it is very important to provide clear instructio
ns, expectations and exemplars of good work. Creating rubrics for each different kind of act
ivity gives students a roadmap toward defining th
eir learning and achievement goals. Dzui
ban, C.D., Harman, J.L., and Mehaffy, G.L. (2014). Blending it all toget
her, In A. Picciano, C. Dzuiban, and C. Graham (Eds.), Bl
ended learning: Research Perspectives volume 2. NY: Routledge. In taking ELI’s BlendKit15 c
ourse on blended learning, I am exposed many n
ew readings and ideas about what blended learning is and what it is not. As
 online learning research accumul
ates, clearly blended learning models are coming out ahead as the most effective form 
of online learning with exceptional learning results for stud
ents. As cited in the U.S. Department of Educat
ion’s (2010) “Evaluation of Evidence-Based Practice in Online Learning: A Meta-Analysis and Review
 of Online Learning Studies”, “Students in online condit
ions performed modestly better, on average, than those learning the same material 
through traditional face-t
o-face instruciton (p.xiv) and noteably, “Instruction combining online and face-to-face
 elements had a larger advantage relative to purely face-to-face
 instruction that did purely onlien instruction.” (p.xv). Why is this? There 
are several reasons to consider
. By combining online components that the student can engage with and explore on the
ir own terms with a face-to-face component that allows for building knowl
edge through connection, collaboration and discourse, you
 have a well rounded 
experience that benefits the learner and provides a refreshing role for the instructor as
 a guide or facilitator. This model is also highly beneficial to several learning styles and a
llows both the introverted and extroverted
 student areanas in which they can s
hine. I am a huge fan of George Siemans and his learning theory of connectivism. Blended learnin
g moves us …”towards a networked model requires that we place less emphasi
s on our tasks of presenting information, and more emphasis on building the learner’s abilit
y to navigate the information.” It is in this navigation, 
that the student sharpens critical thinking sk
ills and develops into an independent life-long learner. I especially like the way that George
 Siemans describes the links and connections formed by the learners themselves as, “…th
e creation of the knowledge ecology.” In order to achieve 
the best balance of both worlds and create an enriched learning experience for the student, these
 5 ideas are useful to remember: -
 Context is always at the core of the planning and design process. Who are the learners? What do
 they need to learn? What kinds o
f learning experiences 
will optimize that effort? - Keep learning and not technology at the c
enter of the design process.
 Use technology to lev
erage learning. - Be aw
are that creating an online or blend
ed learning class will take more time a
nd thought to prepare it properly. - Be prepared to adapt any lear
ning model you use as you get into the design process - “Creating a blended learning strateg
y is an evolutionary process.” (Singh and Ree
d, 2001). I’m looking forward to exploring this topic and online course design style more in depth. 
What appeals to me is the interplay between online and
 f2f components and how to o
ptimize that volly to find just the right mix to create a vibrant learning 
community that ignites with the love of self-dire
cted learning. Siemens, G. (2002, September 30, 2012). Instru
ctional Design in Elearning. Retrieved from
 http://www.elearnspace.org/Article/InstructionalDesign.htm S
ingh, H. & reed, C. (2001). A white paper: achieving s
uccess with blended learning. Centra Software. U.S. Department of Education. (2010). Evaluation 
of Evidence-Based Practices in Online Learning:
 A Meta-Analysis and Revie
w of Online Learning Studies, Washington,
 D.C. Retrieved from http://www2.ed.gov/rschstat/eval/tech/evidence-base
d-practices/finalrep
ort.pdf If you’ve been following the stream of articles on digital education, no doubt yo
u’ve run into the frenzy around MOOCs. MOOC
S represent a new form o
f online education deliverable to students worldwide for a lo
w- to no-cost and can provide, in s
ome cases, college credit. Students can access educational content delivered by some of
 the most prestigious universities in the world on their t
ime and from multiple devices. So far, MOOCs have already opened acces
sibility to higher education for m
illions of students; according to Coursera over half of t
hese students are over age 26.  As with other disruptions, controversy swells af
ter initial launches, and MOOCs are certainly no exception. Recently, a group of philosophy p
rofessors at San Jose State Universitywrote an open letter to Michael San
del, a government professor at Harvard University, for his offering of a MOOC through the provi
der edX that had its beginnings at Harvard. The issue? Concerns the collaborat
ion between schools via MOOCs could represent the beginning of a trend to “replace 
professors, dismantle departments, and provide a diminished education for students in public univer
sities.” In early May, several dozen professors in Harvard’s F
aculty of Arts and Sciences signed a letter to their dean asking for formal oversight o
f the MOOC offerings through edX, a MOOC provider co-founded by the University. The Har
vard professors alluded to “many critical questions,
” as yet unanswered, about “the impact online courses will have on the higher-edu
cation system as a whole.” Some outsiders comment that Harvard (and other large tier-one universiti
es) may become the Wal-Mart of education, impa
cting branding, and moving to a corporate mod
el, which could exclude the original values and mission statement of univers
ity education. Critics argue that professors who object to the emergence of MOOCs may be more 
concerned their scholarly works may come under much more scrutiny when t
heir classes open to the world. Financially and polit
ically, the MOOC movement recasts itself almost daily as the b
ig players jostle for position to become a top-tier 
provider of online courses that can be offere
d either as the main course or more of an appetizer in a fli
pped classroom settin
g. Some higher education forecasters believe this is the future of pub
lic education. The Bill & Melinda Gate
s Foundation, which is supporting the Massachusetts Bay Community C
ollege experiment whe
re MOOC delivery is happening in addition to face-to-face classr
oom instruction, has devoted millions to seeing if MOOCs
 produced by elite universities c
ould help boost student success at financially-strapped state co
lleges. The MOOC style of 
delivery is no doubt highly popular among students and lifelong learners. More than 900,000 peop
le are now registered users 
of edX, and President Anant Agarwal said it plans to generate rev
enue — through selling validated certificates to those who compl
ete courses and charging licensing fees to colleges that teach courses based on
 its videos — are on track. Coursera, another highly popular 
MOOC provider, adapted its original vision to a 
new platform, offering credit-bearing courses for students enrolled in mu
ltiple campuses within a public university system beginning in May
 2013. The company’s partners in this are the State University of New York System, the T
ennessee Board of Regents and the University of Ten
nessee System, the U
niversity of Colorado System, the University of Houston System, the University of Ke
ntucky, the University of Nebr
aska System, the University of New Mexico System, the University System of Georgia and West Virg
inia University. Critics claim the re
al impact of MOOCs may not be in educational pedagogy, but in the altering of 
the financial and political systems tied to higher educat
ion. Faculty are concerned about
 job security, academic freedom and the general dismantling of a very entr
enched traditional version of highe
r education. Other newly-arising 
and hotly contested issues include: whether a professor who
 creates content delivered on a MOOC platform is responsible for the
 full impact of disruption created at another university or community college; whether students ar
e actually learning anything; and how credit administered for these cour
ses would compare with credit delivered for face-to-face c
lassroom instruction. Chandrakant Panse of Massachusetts B
ay Community College said, “The MIT certificate has a lot more value in
 the marketplace than three course credits at MassBay — absolutely.”
 In the context of a student’s job search, says the professo
r, an edX certificate “is going to matter tremendously more than saying. ‘I have three cr
edits at MassBay for doing a programming course.’” Because of the paucity of
 secure and psychometrically
 valid learning outcome assessments, it is difficult to determine the value of MOOCs. Some 
see it as a new form 
of entertainment, with some students around the world competing to obtain the highest num
bers of letters of completion. Th
ese so-called hardcore students have, in some cases, taken mor
e than 30 courses and descr
ibe themselves as “Coursera addicts.” They argue th
is is a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to learn from some of the most prestigious universi
ties in the world … for free. And they worry this free admission to hig
h-quality education may not last for long. New research publis
hed by the Journal of Research and Practice in Assessment is among 
the first peer-reviewed studies
 based on MOOC data. The study disc
overed online learners
 performed better when they worked with the course ma
terial offline, either with a peer or with someone tr
ained in the area of study. The co
urse reviewed was “Ci
rcuits and Electronics” from MIT. In this article, we must also visit the issue of c
heating online, as it is easy to do so in a MOOC. “Understanding Cheating in Online Courses
,” an eight-week course, explores the v
ocabulary, psychology and mechanics of what Bernard Bull, assistant vice-presiden
t of academics at Concordia University Wisconsin, calls “successful chea
ting” in online learning. Not all academics are critica
l of MOOCs. In fact, some of them welcome the movement as a way to augment their already-
established courses. Khosrow Ghadiri, a lecturer at San Jose State University, said the edX cour
se works perfectly as an additional classroom resource. “It’s a talking textbook t
hat you can pick up any chapter of it, augment it the way y
ou want it, add lecture to it, and use it to teach your students effectiv
ely,” he told The Chronicle of Higher Education.  Last fall, Ghadir
i began using recorded lectures by edX’s Agarwal in his introductory c
ourse in electrical engineering. Students passed at a much hig
her rate than usual — 91 percent compared with 59 pe
rcent and 55 percent in two other, more traditional sections of the same
 course. “We need a talented faculty to engage with the students,” said Ghadiri. 
“The only thing that I
 see in this pilot experiment is that the faculty get more time to 
spend with the students on
e-on-one.” Clearly, the emergence of a trend such as the MOOC is indicative of un
met educational needs worldwide. Societal changes are forcing t
ime-tested traditions to yield to the demand for more relevant models. T
he disruption presently created by the MOOC movement can be a 
time for fresh debate and an emergence of
 completely new models that serve bot
h instructor and stud
ent more effectively in the 21s
t century. As with many things 
in our societies, embracing change promotes growth, both personally and profession
ally. – – – – Article originally posted on Th
e EvoLLLution at http://www.evolllution.c
om/community_programs/audio-serving-local-community-critical-small-institution-success/  A
llison Morris, “The Minds Behind The MOOCs,” Online Courses, June 4, 2013. Accessed at 
http://www.onlinecollegecourses.com/minds-behind-moocs  “San Jose State De
partment of Philosophy – Open Letter to Professor Michael Sandel From the Philosophy Departemnt a
t San Jose State U,” RapGenius, April 29, 2013. Accessed at http:/
/news.rapgenius.com/San-j
ose-state-department-of-philosophy-open-letter-to-professor-mi
chael-sandel-from-the-philosophy-depar
tment-at-san-jose-state
-u-lyrics#note-1833866  “Letter from 58 Professors to Smith Addressing edX,
” The Harvard Crimson, Ma
y 23, 2013. Accessed at http://www.thecrimson.com/flash-graphic/2013/5/23/
edx-faculty-letter-smith/  Steve Kolowich, “Outso
urced Lectures Raise Concerns About Academic Free
dom,” The Chronicle of Higher Educa
tion, May 28, 2013. Accessed athttp://chronicle.com/article/Outs
ourced-Lectures-Raise/139471/ At the Center for Applied Second Language Studies at the University o
f Oregon in Eugene, Oregon a grand experiment is taking place. Due to the impact of r
ecent budget cuts in education both at the K-12 level a
nd in higher education, foreign lan
guage courses are being dropped and students are scrambling to find new and different wa
ys to access these necessary courses. The courses are not only necessary for college admis
sion, but to adequately function in the globalized j
ob market of the future. Some high school students in our state are going to community colleges for
 classes, while others are taking online courses developed by educational corporations. We have
 assembled a team of Chines
e specialists in curriculum and pedagogical desi
gn and along with myself working in instructional design
 and technology, we are pr
eparing online modules in
 Mandarin for both high schoo
l students and the national Fl
agship program which supplies classes that delive
r both content and high level Chinese language instruction to college studen
ts. Our goal is to create a completely new format that offers the best of langua
ge instruction and enriched technological media for high student engagement. Being in
 a pioneering field is both exciting and daunting at times. One of the greatest challenges w
e have faced is exactly how to blend the philosophy of sound evidence based language
 instruction with best practices in Instructional Design. Th
ere is an art and science to both good language instruction and engaging instruction
al design and finding the exact points where these two disciplines intersect has been fasc
inating. Communication is key. One would think that it would be easy to com
municate the needs for 
an online module to a content development tea
m. But without having taken an online course, the membe
rs of the content development team rely heavily on my expertise and understa
nding of how the course will unfold in a
n asynchronous online setti
ng. By contrast, not speaking a word of Mandarin, I rely heavi
ly on the team’s expertise in developing both c
ontent and curriculum that will meet nati
onal and international standards of language instruction. Working
 with native speakers from China and Taiwan, I hav
e discovered their learning styles and their great attention to detail. Wh
ile it has been mentioned in the literature that Asian cul
tures by nature may not necessarily be innovative, I wo
uld disagree. What I have noticed i
s that their ability to revise, refine and innovate i
s keen on models that 
are already created. The areas where I see our team being stretched is in 
using new models of teaching, such as proj
ect based learning and folding in Web 2.
0 tools, the quantity of which grows by the day.
 It is immensely rewarding to work s
ide by side with colleagues from China and Taiw
an as we move forward with our online initiatives. The variou
s perspectives, skill sets, talents and viewpoints help to create an enriched lea
rning experience that
 we are eager to sample with student groups soon. Image court
esy of: Extracted: 3/30/12 at 11:34 AM (PST). A
ssessing a Collaboration Project For this discussion pos
t, you are in the role of an online instructor who has assigned a website to be built by gro
ups comprised of four students each in your cou
rse in Multimedia Web Design. This is a c
apstone project for the course and you have had the opportunity to observe eac
h student’s level of cognitive attitude, technical ability a
nd participation in the course through other collaborative projec
ts, like the Discussion Board. You are entering the last two weeks of the 
course, and by now, peer to peer relationships have been established and your role 
now is to function as a learning gu
ide. Reflect on your role as a learning guide and how b
est to approach your students, now that they have becom
e more independent. In your previous online courses, reflect upon a
n instructor who has handled this 
transitional role well and draw from it as you develop this week’s post. Reflect on 
your role as a student and how it has been for you working in groups for academic project
s in the past. What have you learned that you can
 take forward with this assignment? For this week’s post: Please describe how you would: - 
Form the groups for the Captstone Project - Communicate Best P
ractices for helping the group to manage the project - Establish roles for the proje
ct - Assess both individual and group performance - Desig
n rubrics for this assessment Here is the 
rubric that your post will be evaluated by the following rubric. Click on t
his link, scroll to the very bottom of the page and lo
cate the rubric for Discussion Posts.
 Post by Wednesday: Please post your r
esponse to the class Discussion Board by Wednesday of this week.
 Friday: Review the Dis
cussion Board posts and enter in to any disc
ussion to add and expand the discussion. Sunday: Again, review all the responses to 
your initial post and f
ollow up with any co
nversations that you have been participating in to date. (Cartoon thought bubble reads: ” http://w
ww.canyoudomyhomeworkforme.com
”;) With the explosion of online learning in both K-12 and higher education, the
re too, has been an explosion in plagiarism and cheating.
 While the motivation for cheating has not changed over the yea
rs, the realization th
at one has cheated, especially in the digital world, has, as it is much more
 visible in a cyber based classroom. Most students do not realize that by c
utting and pasting text from a website into their research paper without citation
 represents plagiarism and cheating. In an interesting 
survey of approximately 50,000 students from more than 60 universities students b
elieve: ‘cut & paste’ plagiarism – using 
a sentence or two (or more) from 
different sources on the Internet and weaving thi
s information together int
o a paper without appropriate citation – is not a serious issue. While 10 percent of stude
nts admitted to engaging in such
 behavior in 1999, almost 40 percent admit to doing so in the Assessment Project 
surveys [2002-5]. A majority of students (77%) believe such cheating is not a very 
serious issue (CAI research, 2005) as cited in Jocoy & DiBiase (2006). Why has cheating beco
me ‘not a very serious issue’? It appears both the expectation
s and enforcements of facilitators/e
ducators has fallen off. 
According to Jocoy & DiBiase (2006), it is much har
der to detect manually as well. With
 budget cuts, shorter teacher days, higher enrollments, it se
ems plausible that a lot of cheating is going unnoticed. Thankfully, plagiarism software is now ava
ilable to online instru
ctors that can check for plagiarism. Turnitin is a good case in point. 
Other methods include Google which allows instructors to track 
down copied phrases and online services such as EVE actually compares student papers to Web 
documents and/or to essay databases to
 find and report instances of matching
 text. In their study, Jocoy & DiBiase(2006) did notice 
a difference in detecting instances of cheating by using digital resources. Our authors, Pallof
f & Pratt (2011), discuss the importance of creating an assessment that 
is highly individualized. For instance, rather than creating a multiple choice test, d
esign the assessment so that the student has to write a personal reflection paper
 that demonstrates how they would apply the k
nowledge gained in the 
course to their everyday lives. There is an argument f
or preparing students for
 the work world in such a way that collaborative research, and fact finding becomes a norm. Right 
now in my son’s 7th grade class, the math teams occasionally take a gro
up exam and each member of the team can contribute their kno
wledge to the exam. As an inst
ructor, there are several remedies than can be imple
mented to cut down on both plagiarism and cheating. First of all, 
the instructor holds the expectation that students will not cheat and that there will 
be enforcements and consequences if students are caught. The announce
ment of assignments being processed by 
Turnitin should be enough of disincentive for a student to go down that road. More use of libra
rians can also be he
lpful, as many current students do not really understand the nature of plag
iarism. As an online instructor, examinations can be made of d
ocuments side-by-side, discussion posts can be compared to
 one another, unusual wording or lengthy wording that differs from the student’s ‘sig
nature style’, and even a mix of 
fonts and type style in one paper are all ways that an instructor ca
n possibly suspect cheating. If it i
s suspected, it is best that the instructo
r addresses the issue with the studen
t offline and explains the situ
ation and asks for an explanation. The online in
structor has the responsibility to set the tone of this issue early on in
 Week Zero in the course policies of what the expectations and consequences are for cheating. 
The student who cheats only 
cheats him or herself on really knowing the material that will benefit their 
life somehow in the f
uture. That is a real loss for that individual and needs to be prevented. As I look to the future of
 online learning, I real
ly like the idea of designing assessments that are as individualized a
s a student’s fingerprint. Design the 
assessment so that the student is forced to engage higher 
level thinking skills and demonstrate metacognition. Reflecting o
n one’s experiences 
in life or applying the content information to one’s life are excellent ways to measure le
arning and guarantee that the student has delivered original thinking and truly contributed some
thing unique to the learning community of the cours
e. Cartoon courtesy of www. CartoonStock.com. Extracted from: Google Images. 04/07/11 Jocoy, C., 
& DiBiase, D. (2006). Plag
iarism by adult learners online: A case study in detection
 and remediation. International Review of Rese
arch in Open & Distance Learning, 7(1), 1–15. Palloff, R. & Pratt, K. (2011) Plagiarism and
 Cheating. Laureate Education Inc., Video Production.
In the struggle for energy conserva
tion, one region outpaces the others by a long shot: 
the Pacific Northwest and the state of California. Since the 1970s, said D
avid Goldstein, senior scientist at the Natural Resources Defense Council, with offices in Califor
nia, Washington, D.C., and New York, West Coast energy-conservation groups have initiated a var
iety of low-cost community programs designed to lower energy consumption in the fight to avo
id an increase in the number of power plants. So far, coalitions have
 eliminated the need for 16 power plants in
 Washington, Oregon, Wyoming and Idaho, s
aid Michael Totten, executive director of the Washington, D.C.-based Energy
 Conservation Coalition. That reg
ion has saved more than $100 million a year with energy efficient programs. Energy expe
rts say that these programs cost one-tenth the cost of building a po
wer plant. Many are incentive programs. The state of Oregon, 
for example, pays a certain amount for the weatherization of homes, and Pac
ific Power & Light Co. boasts the highest payback rate for such programs in 
the country--$1.15 per kilowatt hour, as opposed to an average of
 7 cents. Another successful incentive program in Oregon called for
 newly constructed buildings to ``beat`` existing building codes by bei
ng more energy-efficient than the codes required. Califo
rnia leads the way in appliance efficiency, Goldstein said. The state has toughened its st
andards and is in its ``sec
ond generation`` of plans to improve efficiency by gr
anting rebates to customers who purchase energy-efficient appliances. The stat
e of California has a tiered-rate utility p
ayment structure, which sells initial units of electricity at bargain prices, then 
increases the rate with additional co
nsumption. This legislative measure helps low
-income families, who use less electricity out of neces
sity, Goldstein said. Northwest states have set up programs to retr
ofit insulation into homes, a move subsidized 
by utilities for low-income households. A trial conservation program in the l
ast few years studied 
how quickly the Northwest reg
ion could reduce energy consumption. In two years, 90 percent of the households had i
nsulation and other weatherization methods installed. This m
ade for 50 percent or more energy savings, Goldstein said. ``Reagan and the utilities say we n
eed to build several hundred power plants in t
he next 20 years,`` Goldstein said. ``That would cost s
everal trillion dollars.`` The alternative, he said, is to implement a multitude of low-cost 
community energy-conservation programs at a much lower price. Though the
se individual programs seem to save a few
 cents here, a few cents there, in the long run they add up, he s
aid.
No one enjoys paying taxes. R
emember receiving your first paycheck and discovering how much of your hard-earned money you 
would be sharing with the government? Most of us recognize that some taxes are necessa
ry. We are happy to have roads, schools, courts, and a military, but don’t feel great about
 having to pay the taxes that fund them. Although economics recognizes the need for taxes to fu
nd the government, it is pretty clear-eyed about the downside of taxes: - Corp
orate taxes are problematic because they involve taxing the same earnings twice. Once a
 corporation has paid taxes on its income, it distributes some of 
that income to shareholders as dividends–whic
h are then taxed a second time. It would make more economic sense to forget about corporations an
d just tax shareholders. - Income taxes, particularly in the United
 States, have so many loopholes t
hat they distort economic incentives. For example, people who would
 be better off renting a house may decide to buy because buying is ch
eaper once they factor in that they can deduct mortgage interest payments from their income
 tax. Nonetheless, taxes are somet
imes good for us, despite the economic draw
backs. One example is the tax on cigarettes. Smokin
g is costly for society. According to the US Centers for Disease Co
ntrol, smoking-related illness costs t
he United States more than $300 billion per year, approximately the s
ame amount as Americans spend on all prescription drugs combined. The health costs and l
ost productivity due to cigarettes are estimated to be $19.16 per pack. If a higher tax on cigaret
tes reduces smoking, this would be a good outcome. Historically, states were willing
 to impose “sin taxes,” that i
s, taxes on items considered to be socially undesirable or har
mful like alcohol and tobacco, because demand for these products was generally robust—hence th
e taxes provided a dependable revenue stream. More recently, and particularly in the case of 
cigarettes, a different motivation has come to the fore. If the tax is high enough, it 
may discourage consumption, whi
ch would be a good thing. So, the question is: do higher taxes on cigarettes red
uce sales? Figure 1 plots the adult smoking rate on the 
horizontal axis and the level of st
ate cigarette taxes on the vertical 
axis. The tax data in figure 1 do not include 
a federal tax of $1.01 per pack of cigarettes, or taxes by cities and counties, such
 as Chicago ($1.18), Cook County ($3.00), New York Ci
ty ($1.50), Philadelphia ($2.00), and Juneau
, AK ($3.00). Note the high tax ra
te in the northeast and far west, and the relatively low tax r
ate in the major tobac
co-producing states (NC, KY, VA, SC
, TN, and GA, highlighted in red). The trend line in Figure 1, which
 illustrates the relationsh
ip between cigarette taxes and smoking, suggests that higher taxes are, in fact, assoc
iated with less smoking. However, the data also suggest tha
t high taxes have their limits. New York, for example, has t
he highest state tax on cigarettes ($4.35 per pack), but its adult smoking rate is still higher t
han the slightly lower-ta
x states such of Massachuse
tts ($3.51), Connecticut ($3.90), New Jersey ($2
.70), and California ($2.87). The data also clearly indicates that the sta
te tax rate is not the sole determinant of
 smoking. For example, Utah which has a relatively low tax rate also has a lower smoking rate
, presumably due in part to Mormonism’s prohibition on smoking. The adult smoking rate may not
 be the best indicator of the s
uccess of cigarette tax poli
cy. Adult smokers are u
sually long-term smokers w
ho are both more likely to be addicted and have more money, and so may be less discouraged by high 
cigarette taxes. Young smok
ers, however, are less likely to be addicted and have the financial means to suppor
t a smoking habit, so we would
 expect their demand for cigarettes to be more sensitive to taxes. Figure 2 plots the youth
 smoking rate on the horizontal axis and the level of cigarette state taxes on the vertical axi
s. Figure 2 bears out this assertion. The flatter tr
end line illustrates that higher state taxes lead to a 
greater decline in smoking among youth 
than among adults, and suggests that a number of states 
could lower their youth
 smoking rate even further by raising the excise tax. Of course, state policy on cigarette ta
xes can be subverted by smu
ggling if the divergence between state taxes are substantial. Buying just one
 package of cigarettes in Virginia, where the tax is $0.30 per pack, and selling it in New Y
ork City, where the city and 
state tax combined are $6.01, would lead to a profit of $5.71. Since a pack o
f cigarettes is quite small and weigh
s only a few ounces, large scale smuggling presents a significant profit opportun
ity. One way of increasing cigarette taxes without encouraging ad
ditional smuggling would be to increase the $1.01 per 
pack federal tax on cigarettes. 
Cigarette tax policy is far more complicated than the simple analysis presented here. There 
are many additional factors that may affect youth and adult smoking patterns, includi
ng race, gender, ethnicity, advertising, 
and legal age of smoking. And
, since smoking is more common among the less affluent, cigarette taxes are likely to be regressive
. Despite these caveat
s, the evidence is clear that taxing cigarettes can save lives. Featur
ed image credit: cigarette smoking smoke ash by markusspiske. Public
 domain via Pixabay.
The Launch of the World Al
liance for Patient Safety "Please do me no harm" The World Health Organi
zation (WHO) and its partners announced a series of key actions to cut the number 
of illnesses, injuries and deaths suffered by patients during health care, with the launch o
f the World Alliance for Patient Safety. Ministers of health and senior offi
cials, academics, patients' groups and WHO representatives came together from al
l corners of the globe to advance the patient safety goal of "First do no harm" and reduce the adve
rse health and social consequences of unsafe health care. T
he launch meeting, which took place at the Pan American Health Organization in Washingt
on , DC, was organized around a series of keynote speeches. The meeting, encouraged participant
s to strengthen common action for integration o
f patient safety issues in nati
onal health policy and practice that would lead to much greater long-term 
safety in health care. Progress made at regional levels was described by WHO Regional Direc
tors. The meeting heard that the World Alliance for Patient Safety ai
ms to deliver six major action areas during 2005-2006: - Globa
l Patient Safety Challenge focusing on health care associated infec
tion; - Patients for Patient Safety involving patient oranizations and individual
s in Alliance work; - International
 Classification for Patient Safety ensuring consistency in the concepts, principles,
 norms and terminology use
d in Patient Safety work; - Research for Patient 
Safety developing a rapid assessment tool 
for use in developing countries and undertaking prevalenc
e studies of adverse effects; - Solutions for Patie
nt Safety promoting existing 
interventions in patie
nt safety and coordinating int
ernational efforts to develop solutions. - Reporting and learning generating best pra
ctice guidelines. Forward programme 2005 Worl
d Alliance for Patient Safety
Water Quality Studies in Malacca River Basin Using Geogr
aphic Information Systems (GIS) Lion Bayuhan, Marryanna Lion (2003) Water Quality Studi
es in Malacca River Basin Using Geographic Information Systems
 (GIS). Masters thesis, Universiti Putra Malays
ia. Malacca Straits is recognized worldwide du
e to its importance as th
e busiest waterway in the world. The environmental profile of the Malacca Str
aits points to certain stresses in the ecosystem due to pollution load. Pollutants from l
and-based sources are probably the most pressing
 environmental problem. Wastes from agricultural, industrial, and domestic source discha
rge directly into the Straits or
 indirectly via rivers, which flow into the Straits. As far as land based pollution 
is concerned, study on river basin is important. The Malacca River basin is of the 
rivers flowing into the Straits of Malacca. Geographic infor
mation System (GIS) was used to map the wa
ter pollution scenario due to its ability to analyze spatial and temporal data. Bes
ide that, correlation coefficient method was used to determine the relationship and
 variation between rainfall and wate
r quality parameters. Six parameters selected f
or this study. namely. Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD), Chemi
cal Oxygen Demand (COD), Ammoniacal Nitrogen. pH, Suspended Solid (SS), and Dissolved Oxyge
n (DO). The output of this 
study consists of water quality database. maps, and graphs on the water quality var
iations. The important of this study is the application of GIS tec
hnology in monitoring water quality. Technology plays an important role for eff
ective environmental management. Repository Staff Only: Edit
 item detail
- Special Sections - Public Notices ound as the IQ sinks” is an amazing example of chutzpah
. In a column meant for readers in Los Alamos, certainly a mathematically aware county,
 he tells us that today’s kids’ aptitudes are being degraded by not doing enough 
long division exercises. He harkens 
back to a better time when students learned how better how to do “real” calcu
lations. Maybe some students need to do mor
e rote exercises and can skip Euclid’s proof that 
the square root of two is irrational. (I change my mind. That proof is just too beautiful.) 
But we need to teach the students with the highest aptitude for science, techn
ology, engineering and math too. Concepts-based m
ath is just right for these students. Sure, we all need to learn some act
ual methods, but in my view the old school way, teaching students to do endless l
ong divisions like 1/7=0
.142857142857… is not the whole story. I wished I had learned earlier the art of es
timation — how to calculate on your feet an answer that is good enough, and knowi
ng how good is good enough. These are quick methods used in science and
 engineering but also for doubling recipes, c
alculating tips, estimating your gas mileage — and knowing that 29.787 MPG is not a better 
answer than 30 MPG. I would have appreciated a column on 
this subject that inter
viewed parents and teachers, both here and elsewhere in the state, reporting on their respons
es and suggesting improvements based 
on those responses.
Protected areas have long been recognised as an important tool for protecti
ng biodiversity, and are now increasingly recognised for their r
ole in protecting carbon; recent global analyses by UNEP-WCMC (2008) have shown tha
t approximately 15% of the global carbon stock is currently found within
 protected areas. Carbon emissions from defore
station account for an estimated 20% of global carbon emissions (
IPCC 2007. In collaboration with the University of Copenhagen and the Univ
ersity of Queensland, we aim to measure protected area effectiveness, at a 
regional and national scale, using a landscape modelling
 approach. As part of this project we are working to
 update and analyse the Pro
tected Areas Management Effectiveness (PAME) database, whi
ch is linked to the World Database on Protected Areas (WDPA), and holds information on 
the management and gover
nance of over 6000 protected areas worldwide
.
“Knowledge is Power”, this is probably one of the most famous s
ayings in modern world. We humans love to think, reason, and interpret. As the book 48
 laws of power would put it: “Humans are machines of interpretation and ex
planation; they have to know what you are th
inking.” This is the fundamental principal behind the fourth law. The more you talk, the more in
formation you give away and thus, the more your power decrea
ses. This is because by talking, we reveal our intentions, biases,
 quirks and personality (basically, 
we reveal who we are). When this information reaches the ears of other peop
le, it can be used to stop your plans, it can be used against you or it can be used to gain
 your favor. On the other hand, when we say less than necessary, we put others on
 the defensive. The sile
nce will make them uncomfortable and as a 
result, they will try to fill in the void w
ith comment and talk. In the process they will reveal something a
bout themselves, which you can later use against th
em. When King Louis XIV was in court, he would say very little. All he would say is “I s
hall see”; then without telling anyone, he would impl
ement whatever he decides. His officials did not kn
ow what he wanted; as a result, the official
s ended up talking more in an attempt to convince
 the king on their stand. They had to do this because the
y did not know what the king wanted, so they are unable to make deci
sions based on the king’s wishes. They were 
uncomfortable around the king because of his silence.
 As a result, they said a lot more thus exposing their own beliefs to the
 king. King Louis XIV would then use their words against them. Wor
ds once uttered cannot be returned so choose
 your words carefully. Hi 18 K
In addition to causing damage to your home, a rodent infestation can actually make your family si
ck. In fact, rats and mice can transmit more than two dozen
 different diseases to huma
ns. Transmission can occur through direct co
ntact with rodents, their droppings, urine or saliva, o
r indirectly through contaminat
ed food, infected fleas, ticks or mites. If you suspect you have rats or mice in 
your home, call a profession
al! Handling rodents, infested insulation or any othe
r contaminated materials is a potential biohazard and can lead to th
ese common rodent-related diseases. 4 Reasons to Rid Your Home o
f Mice & Rats Salmonella is a food-borne bacteria that affects the digestive tra
ct. Humans can contract salmonella if they consume
 food that has been conta
minated by rodent droppings or food that has been prepared on a contaminated surface. Salmonella sym
ptoms include abdominal cr
amps, diarrhea and fever lasting 4-7 days. Most people recover wi
thout treatment, however, young children, elderly adults and th
ose with compromised immune systems may require hospi
talization. Hantavirus is found in
 the droppings, urine and saliva of infected deer mice
 and other rodents, and when inhaled by humans it can cause a rar
e, but potentially fatal lung disease known as Hantavirus Pulmonary Synd
rome. Symptoms are similar to that o
f the flu, and include fatigue, fever, chills, muscle aches, nausea, vomiting and diarrhea, as wel
l as a dry cough, difficulty breathing, dizziness and headaches. There is no vaccine or cu
re, however, treatment may involve intensive ca
re, oxygen therapy and mechanical vent
ilation. While more prevalent in the Western United States than here in New York and Vermo
nt, the bubonic plague bacteria is mos
t commonly transmitted to humans
 through the bite of an infected flea. Responsible for the de
aths of millions in the Middle Ages, plag
ue is now treatable with common antibiotics. However, left untreated it can cause serious illness 
and death. Symptoms include the sudden onset of fever, headache, chills and
 weakness with one or more swoll
en, tender and painful lymph nodes. Lymphocytic choriomening
itis, or LCM, is a rodent-borne virus primarily carried by house mice. Although r
arely fatal, it can cause serious neurological problems, includi
ng encephalitis and meningitis. Humans typically contract the LCM virus af
ter coming into contact with the ur
ine, droppings, saliva or 
nesting materials of infected 
rodents. Early symptoms may present like the flu,
 with neurological symptoms appearing in the second phase of i
llness. Common treatments inv
olve anti-inflammatory drugs and hospital
ization depending on 
severity of symptoms. Prevent Rodent-Relat
ed Diseases Don’t risk your family’s health. If you live in Northern New York or 
Western Vermont, and you suspect you have rodents in your home, contact 
Nature’s Way Pest Control 
for a free inspection. Our profes
sional pest control experts will inspect your home, set traps and remove any 
potential biohazards. We can also perform attic cleanouts, install special pest control insu
lation and prevent mice and rats from entering with our profession
al Pest Block services.
This study aimed to investigate students' opinio
ns on using blogs for writing and giving comments among class
mates outside class. Results from a questionnaire show that students 
consider the act of giving comments on Blogs helped them to improve their critical thi
nking, problem solving and communication skills. Some students felt unc
omfortable to give comments when others knew who they were. However, most
 of the participants preferred online to discussion to face, could expres
s ideas in the online discu
ssion. More than 90% agreed that Blogging supports collaborative learn
ing both in knowledge development and group sharing. Many students agreed that 
Free-writing was too difficult while nea
rly all the students indicated Blog could help them learn how t
o write, they learned and used new v
ocabulary and they improved their writing skills. Although half of the s
tudents agreed that the assignments in Blogs were too time consuming, they encou
raged learner independence. Sumonta Damronglaohapan, Rajamangala Un
iversity of Technology Srivijaya, Thailand Stream: Web-based Lea
rning This paper is part of the ACTC2015 Conference Proceedings (View) View /
 Download the full paper in a new tab/window
In this edition of our Dominican English Dictionary, we bring you a new Do
minican word, as always, you will find several examples with which we try to explain i
n the best way possible these words used daily by 
Dominicans. Dominicans are a creative people, something which is especially evident, in the way w
e talk – often using words that are not listed in the dictionary. Now we introduce you to 
a very common Dominican word specially when you want to express that a person, animal or th
ing is damaged or in bad shape … “De
guabinao” means “in bad shape”, or “tired” It is often used w
hen an object is about to move into a sta
te of uselessness. For a b
etter understanding, next we presen
t some of the synonyms this word has: - lack of strength - Worn out And the list 
continues… Estoy deguabinao/ I’m really tired. No te sientes en ese m
ueble que está deguabinao/ Don’t sit on that couch b
ecause it is broken. Juan cayó deguabinao de la escalera/ Juan fell d
own the stairs awfully.
Brunsma, David L. (2004). The school uniform move
ment and what it tells you about American education. Scarecrow Press. [isbn: 15
7886125X] is held by the Univ
ersity of Melbourne Library,
 call number: UniM ERC 371.51 BRUN Scientific School Uniform Research The scientific research on
 uniforms is just starting to come in. The following discusses a paper from The Journal of Educat
ion Research (Volume 92, Number 1, Sept./Oct. 1998, pp. 53-62) by David L. Brunsma fr
om the University of Alabama
 and Kerry A. Rockquemore of Notre Dame: Effects of Student Uniforms on Atte
ndance, Behavior Problems, Substance Abuse, and Academic Achievement This study sh
owed that uniforms did not lead to an improvement in at
tendance, behavior, drug use, or
 academic achievement. Click here to read t
he study for yourself. Here's the abstract from their st
udy: Mandatory uniform policies have been the focus of recent d
iscourse on public schoo
l reform. Proponents of such reform measures emphasize the 
benefits of student uniforms on spe
cific behavioral and academic outcomes. Tenth grade data from The Nat
ional Educational Longitudinal Study of 1988 was used to test empiri
cally the claims made by uniform advocates. The findings indicate tha
t student uniforms have no direct effect on substance use, behavioral problems, 
or attendance. Contrary to current discourse, the authors found a negative e
ffect of uniforms on student acade
mic achievement. Uniform policies may indirectly affect school environments a
nd student outcomes by providing a visible and
 public symbol of commitment to school impro
vement and reform. Brunsma and Rockquemore wanted to investigate the ex
traordinary claims being made about how wonderful 
school uniforms are, particularly from the Long Beach Californ
ia. It was being claimed that ma
ndatory uniform policies were resulting in massive decreases (50 to 100 percent) in cr
ime and disciplinary problems. It is typically assu
med, as exemplified in Long Beach, that uniform
s are the sole factor causing direct change in numerous behavioral and aca
demic outcomes. Those 
pronouncements by uniform proponents have raised strident objections a
nd created a political climate in which public school uniform policies have become high
ly contested. The ongoing public discourse is not 
only entrenched in controversy but al
so largely fueled by conjecture 
and anecdotal evidence. Hence, it now seems critical that empirical ana
lysis should be conducted to info
rm the school uniform debate
. In this study, we investigated the relationship between uniforms and several outcomes that repres
ent the core elements of uniform proponent's claims. Specifically, we exa
mined how a uniform affe
cts attendance, behavior problems, substance abuse, and academic a
chievement. We believe that a thorough analysis of th
e arguments proposed by uniform advocates will add critical insight to the ongoing
 debate on the effects of school uniform policies. (Brunsma and Rockque
more, 1998, pg. 54) The authors point out that if uniforms work, the
y should see some of the following trends
 in schools with uniforms: uniforms decrease substance use (drugs). 2. 
Student uniforms decrease behavioral problems. 3. Student uni
forms increase attendance. 4. Student uniforms increase academic achie
vement. They suspected that when other variables affecting these four items were accounted for, 
it would be shown that uniforms were not the cause for
 improvement. How They Did Their Study
 They used data from the National Educational Lo
ngitudinal Study of 1988 (NELS:88), and three follow-up studies
. These studies tracked a national sample of eighth 
graders (in 1988) from a wide variety of public and
 private schools and followed their academic careers through college. Some of the data c
ollected in the studies included uniform policies, student bac
kground (economic and minority status), peer group (attitudes towards school and dru
g use), school achievement, and behavioral characteristics (how often d
id each student get into trouble, fights , suspensions, etc.). The autho
rs concentrated on data from t
he students 10th Some of the independent variables they considered were sex, race, econ
omic status, public or private school, academic or vocation
al "tracking", rural or urban district, peer proschool a
ttitudes, academic preparedness, the student's own proschool atti
tudes, and most importantly, whether or not the students w
ore uniforms. The researchers wanted to determine if there was a tie be
tween these variables and desirable behavior by the stude
nts. The areas that they were looking for impr
ovement as a result of th
e previous variables included reduced absenteeism, fewer behavior
al problems, reduced illegal drug use, and improved stan
dardized test scores. The researchers considered this sec
ond group of variables to be the dependent variables. The goal of 
their study was to determine if there was any relationship between the inde
pendent variables (particularly uniforms) and the dependent variables. The authors t
ook all of the data for these variables from the NELS:88 study and performed a regression analysis 
to see if any of the independent variables were predictors of any of the 
dependent variables. If there was a strong tie in the data between any two varia
bles ( uniforms and absenteeism, for example), it would show up in the study as a cor
relation coefficient close to 1 
or -1. A correlation coefficient near 0 indicates no relationship between the two variable
s. So, if wearing uniforms had a large effect on behavior, we would expect
 to see a correlation coefficient of say 0.5 between
 uniforms and measures of good behavior. If we
 see a very low correlation coefficie
nt between these two, then we know th
at wearing uniforms has no real effect on behavior. T
he only positive result for uniforms that the study showed 
was a very slight relationship between uniforms
 and standardized achievement scores. The correlation coefficient was
 0.05, indicating a very 
slight possible relationship between the two variables, but showing that
 uniforms are a very poor p
redictor of standardized test scores and that the rel
ationship is much weaker than has been indicated in the uniform debate. Notice
 that 0,05 is much closer to 0 than to 1. Other than
 this one weak, possible relationship, uniforms struck out. In the author
s own words: Student uniform use was not significantly correlated with any of the
 school commitment variables such as absenteeism, behavior, or substance us
e (drugs). In addition, students wearing uniforms did not appear to have any s
ignificantly different academic preparedness, proschool attitudes, or peer group struct
ures with proschool attitudes than other students. Moreover, the negative correlations between the
 attitudinal variables and the various outcomes of interest 
are significant; hence, the predictive analysis
 provides more substantive results. In other words, the authors saw no relationship between wear
ing uniforms and the desirable behavior (reduced a
bsenteeism, reduced drug usage, improved behavior). They did, however, see a s
trong relationship between academic preparedness, proschool attitudes, and peers having p
roschool attitudes and the desirable behaviors. Fu
rthermore, they saw no relationship between wearing uniforms and the variables that do predict good
 behavior (academic preparedness, proschool attitudes, and peers havin
g proschool attitudes). Based upon this analysis, the authors were f
orced to reject the ideas that uniforms im
proved attendance rates, dec
reased behavioral problems, dec
reased drug use, or improved academic achievement. The authors did fin
d that proschool attitudes from students and their peers and good academic prepar
edness did predict the desired behavior. They saw that wearing uniforms did 
not lead to improvements in proschool atti
tudes or increased academic preparation. D
avid L. Brunsma, D.L. and Rockquemore, K.A. (1998) Effects of Stud
ent Uniforms on Attendance, 
Behavior Problems, Substance Abuse, and Ac
ademic Achievement, The Journal of Education Research Volume 92, Number 1, Sept./Oct. 1998, Polk Co
unty School Uniforms Home Page
Dealing with a medical condition can be one of life’s greatest challenges. But health problems a
re exacerbated further when patients don’t have acces
s to consistent, quality care. Such is the case for roughly 
65 million Americans living in healthcare deserts today. What Are Healthcare Deserts
? Healthcare deserts are
 defined as locations in which a 
population is more than 60 minutes away
 from the closest acute-care hospital. And with 65 million America
ns already living under these conditio
ns, the issue is only expected to get more challenging
 as 100,000 doctors are due to leave the industry by 2025. With these factors se
t for a collision course that could greatly impair the healthcare industr
y’s ability to provide the level of care needed for today’s patients, telehealth app
ears to be the answer to resolving this 
looming issue. The Benefits of Telehealth Se
rvices in Rural Areas 
By introducing telehealth se
rvices, patients will 
be empowered by gaining a direct line of communication wi
th their medical team from the comfort of their own h
ome. This proves parti
cularly effective in cases where a specialist
, not a primary care physician, is required. This opinion was recently esp
oused by the Children’s Health Fund, which claims that 15 million American youths res
ide in areas with fewer than one health professional for every 3,500 reside
nts. The group argued that both time and transportatio
n are significant barriers for children in need of specialt
y care—even those with insurance. Those in poor, rural areas are even more at risk of re
ceiving inadequate medical care. T
he introduction of telehealth services in rural areas would enable families to connect with doct
ors from around the country, including the types of specialists that generally f
lock to urban centers. Who Could Benefit from Telehealth Services? The introduction of telehealth s
ervices will ensure a higher quality of care for these 15 mil
lion children, but will the same impact be fel
t for an aging adult population? The answer is a resounding yes. While children may be able to r
ely on their families to manage the logistics of getting to and fro
m a doctor, an impaired adult may be on their own. Additi
onally, it is the Baby Boomer population driving a surge in demand for
 healthcare at either their own home or from within th
e comfortable confines of an assisted living facility. Despite the numerous benefit
s of telehealth services, the aforementioned Childre
n’s Health Fund whitepaper referred to several challenges that still act as implements to wider te
lehealth adoption: · Legal and licensin
g barriers preventing telehealth from cr
ossing state lines · Lack of access to Internet or smart phones · Ina
bility of healthcare systems and small practices to afford telehe
alth technologies · Lack o
f a system reimbursement for consulting specialists and primary care te
ams · Quality assurance and regulatory concerns However, though these
 challenges are very real, selecting the right telehealth services provi
der will be able to offer a
 comprehensive and systematic method for building a program 
that addresses these concerns while increasing your ability to improve patient outcomes simultaneou
sly. Discover how an effective telehealth program can improve you
r healthcare organization,
 and benefit those in rural areas.
Honoured in Lewes for centuries, St Pancras h
as been one of Rome’s own favourite saints ever since he was ma
rtyred there in 304 during the Diocletian persecution. Christian Roman s
oldiers adopted the youth
ful saint as a patron. Little else is known about him. He may have bee
n the patron of Pope St Gregory the Great’s English mission, led b
y St Augustine. He dedi
cated his first English Church to St Pancras in Canterbury in 597. Lewes quickly became the th
ird most significant Pancras site in Englan
d, after Canterbury and London. In the 1070s, a Saxon Church, St Pancras, became th
e nucleus of the important Cluniac Priory of St Pancr
as, which was dissolved in 1573. When the
 1829 Catholic Emancipation Act allowed Catholics to worship o
penly, Mass was said at 10 Priory Crescent, overlooking the priory ruins. When a church was buil
t in 1870, St Pancras was the obvious c
hoice for patron. The Priest’s house was built at t
he same time as the church of 1870. Two cottages on the corner of Ir
elands Lane, on the site o
f the present forecourt, were used as a parish school. These buildings and their fur
nishings were all paid for by t
he parents of the first parish priest Fr Hubert Wood. M
rs Wood also made several fine vestments, some of which are still in use today. 
In 1930 St Pancras Catholic Primary School was built in De Montfort Road, allowing red
evelopment in Irelands Lane. At that time the first church was in a poor state of repair and
 had to be pulled down. The present church, 
built in1939, was designed by Edward Walters
 and cost £7500. The staine
d Glass windows in the nav
e and chancel are from the first church and there is also
 a commemorative tablet to be found 
in the Lady Chapel. Other stained glass windows have been added more
 recently, with St Philip Howard commemorating the fiftieth anniversary of the church 
in 1989, and a modern design marking the new millennium. A number of re-arrange
ments to the interior of the c
hurch have occurred over the years, with the most
 recent development being the addition of the Cluny Ann
exe consisting of the Wood Room and Challoner Hall. This build replaces the previous Canon O Do
nnell Hall sited a few hundred yards up the road on the island formed by Spi
tal Road and Western Road.
Catsear Treatment Guide Catsear, also known as flat
weed and false dandelion, is a low-lying perennial weed often found in lawns, pastures, a
nd nature strips. The wee
d can tolerate drought and low nutrient soils well, if catsear is overtaking lawn this of
ten indicates poor soil health. Often mistaken fo
r true dandelion (Taraxacum officinale) due to its remarkably similar appeara
nce. Catsear forms as a flat basal rosette with rough leaves covered in stiff hairs
. It has leafless flower stems with up to 7 bright 
yellow flowers on each branched stem. Catsear can be distinguished from 
Dandelion due to its rough, hairy leaves and mult
i branched stems with several flowers whereas dandelions have unbranched, hollow flower stems with a
 single flower. How to Kill Catsear To treat 200m2 of turf, mix 130mL of Cutlass M Herbicide 
into 5-8L of water apply to actively growing weed
s and moist soil. - Do no
t mow turf for two days before or after application - Only spray actively g
rowing weeds - Ensure all weeds are thoroughly wet from appli
cation - Avoid ferti
lising within two weeks of spraying - Do not re-apply to Buffalo Grass within 12 months Always r
ead product label prior to use.
Quality control is the component of quality monitoring that 
guarantees services and products adhere to
 needs. It is a work approach that promotes the measurement of 
the quality attributes of a device, compares them with the esta
blished requirements,
 and also analyses the distinctions between the results acquire
d as well as the wanted cause order to make choices which will certainly cor
rect any kind of distinctions. Technical requirements specify the kind of controls that need to b
e performed to ensure the building works are perf
ormed correctly. They include not only products products, yet likewise the ex
ecution as well as completion of the works. One way of managing 
quality is based upon the evaluation or confirmation of ended up product
s. The purpose is to filter the products 
prior to they get to the customer, so that products that do not follow demands are t
hrown out or fixed. Thi
s reception control is typically lu
gged out by individuals that were not involved in the production tasks, whic
h implies that prices can be high, and also preventative tasks and enhancement strategies ma
y not be reliable. It is a final control, situated between manufac
turer as well as customer, and also although it has the
 advantage of being impartial, it has a lot of drawbacks
, such as slow-moving details moves, which the inspectors are not acquain
ted with the conditions of pr
oduction and are exempt for the produ
ction quality. When exami
nations are damaging, the choice to ap
prove or turn down a full batch should be made on the basis of 
the quality of an arbitrary example. This ty
pe of analytical control offers less details as we
ll as contains sampling dangers. Nevertheless, it is more affordable, calls for less inspectors,
 and speeds up decision-making, while the denial of the entir
e set motivates suppliers to
 boost their quality. This s
ort of control can likewise recognize the sources of variants and also, so e
stablish procedures for their systematic elimina
tion. Analytical control can be put on the final product (acceptance control) or throughout 
the production process (process control).
 Statistical controls at
 function establish sampling plans with clearly-defined acceptance or rejection cri
teria, and total batches are examined using arbitrary tasting. The sampl
ing control can be based upon evalua
tion by characteristics in accordance with the ISO standards. A building and constru
ction company must minimize the expenses of bad quality as high as possible, and make c
ertain that the outcome of it
s processes adhere to the c
ustomer's demands. Both inner and also outside controls can be accomplished. For instance, the cont
rol of concrete received by the service provider can be performed by an independent entity
; the execution of steelworks can be managed by the project supervisor (on behalf of the cust
omer), or the building and construction c
ompany can establish an interior control for the
 implementation of the building job. Quality control is a set of prepared and
 also systematic activities to ensure that product or services abide by
 specific needs. It not only entails examining the fin
al quality of items to stay clear of
 flaws, as holds true in quality control, but likewise checking product quality in a planned m
ethod in all the production pha
ses. It is the advancement of work and item style treatmen
ts to stop mistakes from 
occurring to begin with,
 based on planning ba
cked up by quality guidebooks as well as devices. Wh
en an agreement has been gotten to on the requirements of a quality admin
istration system, it is feasible to specify a series of common requirement
s suitable to any sort of o
rganisation. The worldwide criteria, generically called ISO 9001, are one of the most preval
ent as well as normally accepted in established nations. The ISO 9001 criteria is composed of 
4 basic synergistic standards supported by overv
iews, technological records and also technological 
requirements. Firms 
can just be certified under th
e demands of the ISO 9001 standard. It is a standard t
hat can be made use of to certify the efficiency
 of a quality administration system. Nonetheless
, if the purpose is to improve effectiveness, the objectives of the ISO 9004 standard a
re broader in extent. The principles that underlie the management of quality in the
se requirements are the following: customer focus, management
, participation of indiv
iduals, procedure technique, system method to administ
ration, continual renovation, factual technique to decision production and also equ
ally valuable distri
butor relationships. The ISO 9001 standard defines requirements for a qualit
y management system where an organisation needs to demonstra
te its capability to consistently offer products that fulfill the needs of clients and applicable 
laws demands. Regulative needs concentr
ate on the quality monitori
ng system, monitoring duty, resource
s management, product realisation and also dim
ension, analysis and also improvement. When a quality system
 is ISO 9001 consultants put on an item as complic
ated and special as constru
ction, a certain quality strategy must be prepared by applying the firm's glo
bal system to the certain project. The strategy should be
 composed by the contractor before the beginning of the construction functions and 
will be evaluated throughout its execution. The quali
ty strategy applies to the products, work systems as well a
s solutions that have been particularly sele
cted by the construction business in order 
to abide by the quality requirement
s stated in the agreement. The quality strategy is prepared for the building functions when a pr
eventative method is needed to guarantee the building and construction
 quality, also though there m
ay also be a quality handbook, in con
formity with the ISO 9001 typical requirements.
Editor's note: Naina Subberwal Batra is the chairperson and CEO at
 the Asian Venture Philanth
ropy Network, a Singapore-based non-profit that has offi
ces in 13 countries around the wor
ld, including Vietnam.
 AVPN has over 487 members from 32 countri
es and undertakes field building activities in Asia while providing a range of network
ing and learning services to support its members and fol
lowers to create meaningful social impact. We are drowning in plastics. Unless we 
change our behavior, there will be more plastic by weigh
t than fish in the ocean by 2050. Solving this crisis require
s us to do more than just banning plastic straws
. We need a paradigm shift. We must adopt deep structural changes to our plastic production and con
sumption patterns in order to move away from the extractive linear mo
del of ‘take, make, use and dispose’ towards a ‘closed-loop’ circular economy – an economy that is i
ntentionally restorative. Over the past year, governmen
ts in Southeast Asia have been in
 the hot seat over plastic pollution
. Indonesia, the Philippines, Thailand and Vietnam are some o
f the world’s top plastic polluters. Together with China, they account for up to 60 percent of the p
lastic waste leaking into our oceans. In our joint report with ECCA Family Trust 
– released last week – we identify the main challenges as a lack of infrastr
ucture and financing, poor public aware
ness, poor execution of recycling policies, illegal dumping, as well a
s unplanned industrial development. The go
od news is that governments at both the national and city levels are step
ping up their efforts to
 reduce plastic pollution. Vietnam accounts for six p
ercent of global marine plastic garbage flows or some 0.28-0.73 million metric tons annually. L
ast week, Prime Minister 
Nguyen Xuan Phuc approved the National Action Plan on Ocean Waste Management by 
2030. This plan aims to reduce plastic debris 
discharged into the 
ocean by 75 percent and end the usage of dispo
sable plastic products and fishing gear in coastal tourist resorts within the next 10 ye
ars. At the city level, the Chairman of the People’s Committee of Phu Quoc District has signed 
up to the WWF Plastic Smart Cities initiative announced last month and l
aunching in February next year. WWF i
s working with district officials to develop an action plan to fight plastic
 pollution, establish circular economy projects, and test inno
vative solutions. These efforts are laudab
le but we cannot rely on governments alone. To solve the problem, w
e need coordinated mult
i-stakeholder support for a circular economy. Consumer
-goods companies have been struggling to rethink their plastic packaging but an investment fund 
in Singapore may driv
e change. Last week, investment management firm Circulat
e Capital closed its debut Circulate Capital Ocea
n Fund with a total capital commitment of US$106 million from
 PepsiCo, Danone, Unilever, and The Coca-Cola Company, among others. The fund will make de
bt and equity investments across the entire plastics value chain – from alternative mater
ials to waste management infrastructure to advanced recycling technology. I
t seeks to demonstrate that investments in tur
ning plastic from waste into a resource can provide attractive financial returns. 
More and more closed-loop circular economy initiatives are emerging amongst local commun
ities and entrepreneurs. In Vietnam, for example, Evergreen Labs develops and supports busines
ses to address pressing environmental and social challenges, including waste management. One o
f these is ReForm, a scalable social franchise model
. ReForm uses the existing infra
structure of garbage collection centers and transforms them into small p
roduction facilities. The centers are equipped with low-cost machinery t
hat enables workers to produce new
 tradable products. In addition to transforming low-grade plastic that might no
t otherwise be collected or reutilized, it improves the inc
ome of waste pickers,
 generates new jobs, an
d creates a local circular economy. This example represents a low-cost solution that, when
 scaled and connected to other efforts, could potentially move the needle on plastic w
aste. These questions of scale and coordinatio
n are important ones. And it is where networks like AVPN demonstrate their
 true value. We help to remove barriers to 
scale by providing platforms and mechanisms that connect inv
estors and capacity-builders with social enterprises and non-profits who require bo
th financial and non-financial res
ources. The AVPN Southeast Asia S
ummit, happening in Bali, Indonesia in February next year, is one such platform that help
s social investors build their awareness of new opportunities and fin
d local collaborators. Similarly, our Climate Action Platform (CAP) brings to
gether the widest possible range of stakeholders to collectively develop the scale, supp
ort and investment to tackle climate change. Projects like those by Evergreen Labs are exact
ly the kind of opportunities
 that the CAP presents to investors. I believe there are sizeable and valuable opportunities to 
create a circular economy within the plastics value chain in Southeas
t Asia. But at present efforts are too fragmented and uncoordinated to have impact scale. The E
llen MacArthur Foundation estimates that 95 percent o
f the material value of plastic packaging – valued at between US
$80 and $120 billion annually – is lost to the global economy
 after a brief initial use. If we – in
vestors, businesses, 
governments, and consumers – can move the plastics industry
 into a positive spiral of value capture, we
 will do an enormous service to both our ocea
ns and our economy. A world in which plastic ne
ver becomes waste is no
t beyond the realms of possibility. But for it to become a reality, we ne
ed to work together.
<< Back to full list of biographies The 4th Duke of Portland began his education in 
Ealing, at the school run by Dr Samuel Goodenough (later Bishop of Carlisle). He later went on to at
tend Westminster School and then Oxford University, though he s
pent only a brief amount of time at the latter after his father, the 3rd Duke, decided to send
 him to complete his education at The Hague. William was an ac
tive politician. In 1790 he became M.P. for Petersfield, and in 1791 he was elected fo
r Buckinghamshire - a seat which he th
en held for five successive parliaments without ever being op
posed. Between 1794 and 1842 he held the position of
 Lord Lieutenant of Buckinghamshire. In 1806 he rejected an offer from Lord Gren
ville to enter the House of Lords thr
ough the family barony of Ogle, because he differed with the administ
ration on a number of issues. Short
ly afterwards, a new governme
nt was formed headed by his father, the 3rd Duke, and William was appointed a junior 
Lord of the Treasury, but he held the p
ost for only a few months. In terms of h
is political beliefs, the 4th Duke became more and more liberal as time went on, and aft
er his succession to the dukedom developed a close ass
ociation with George Canning. When Canning formed a government in 1827, the 4th Duke accepted
 the office of Lord Privy Seal. He later held the post of Lord
 President in Viscount Goderich's short-lived administration. He had no real desi
re for political office, however, and after his period as Lord Presiden
t ended he took little further part in national political life. He did, thou
gh, take an active interest in political affairs through the activities of his son, Lord Geor
ge Bentinck. From his position outside the government, the 4th Duke cont
inued to follow politics closely. He was
 a supporter of the 
Reform Bill and a prominent supporte
r of agricultural protection. As a result, he used his poli
tical influence to oppose the Earl of Lincoln in the bitter battle for the South Not
tinghamshire constituency in 1846. The 4th 
Duke was heavily involved in the management of the family estates, and,
 after finding them burdened with debts when he inherited, was highly successf
ul in reversing the financial situation. He was particularly interested in 
farming methods and t
echniques and undertook several drainage schemes, gaining a reputation as an agricu
ltural improver. He was also central to the development of Troon Harbour in Ayrshi
re, Scotland, and to the construction of the railway w
hich linked to it. Other interests included the study of shipbuilding and naval design. He arranged 
a number of trials with the Admiralty, in which his own and other private ya
chts competed with some of the fastest ships in the navy. The d
uke was also a keen devotee of horse ra
cing. He was a tenant of the Jockey Club at Newmarket, and was respon
sible for many improvements there, including the turf, the gallops and the building of the Po
rtland stand. In 1795 he m
arried Henrietta Scott (d 1844) of Balcomie, Fife, by whom he had 9 children: - William Henry (17
96-1824), Marquess of Titchfield - William John (1800-1879), Mar
quess of Titchfield from 1824 and later 5th Duke of Portland - [William] George Frederick (1802-18
48), politician - [W
illiam] Henry (1804-1870), 
M.P. - Margaret Harriet (1798-1882), - Caroline (d 1828) - Charlotte (1806-1889), m John Evelyn De
nison, later Viscount Ossington
 in 1827 - Lucy (1808-1899), m Charles Augustus, Baron Howard de Wald
en in 1828 - Mary (1810-18
74), m Sir William Topham in 1874 - The 4th Duke's
 papers are part of 
the Portland (Welbeck) Collection held in Manuscripts and Special Co
llections and include extensive personal, pol
itical and estate corresponde
nce - The Portland (London) Collection, also held in Manuscripts and Speci
al Collections, contains papers relat
ing to the estate business of the 4th Duke - The Portland E
state Papers held at Nottinghamshire Archives also contain items relating to
 the 4th Duke's properties - Details of collections held elsewhere are availab
le through the National Register of Archives. Though there are no published biographies exc
lusively dedicated to the 4th Duke of Portl
and, his biographical details fe
ature in the following: - Turberville, A.S., A History of Welbeck Abbey and its Owners, Vol
ume 2, Chapters 15, 16 and 17 (London, 1938
)
Footprints on the Moon This is a special encore presentation of the Quantum episode whi
ch was made to celebrate 
the 20th anniversary of the first Moon landing. First broadcast in 1989, this defi
nitive account wonderfully captures the spirit of the times and the excitement behind the
 first mission to land on the Moon. 
At 12:56pm AEST on July 21, 1969 Neil Armstrong became th
e first human to walk o
n the Moon. It was the culmination of over 10 years of 
intense competition between 
the United States and the Soviet Union that used up massive resources and money and saw
 the sacrifice of human lives in the race for space supremacy. S
o what was the fascination with going to the Moon? And why spend so m
uch effort on reaching it, only to seemingly abandon interest after 
three and a half years of manned lunar landings
? For the answers we invite you to step back in time and relive the r
ace to get the first man on the Moon. What are your memories of the Moon landing? Do you
 remember where you were when you first saw the amazin
g images beamed back from the moon? Even if you weren't alive a
t time, what significance does the moon landing hold for you today? And should
 we be going back to the Moon? Share your memories on our message board.
Stem canker disease of soybean is caused by the fungus, Diaporthe phaseolorum 
var. caulivora, and at present there are no soybean varieties known to be high
ly resistant to this disease. Stem canker takes its name from the resemblance of the 
discolored area of an infected stem to a cank
er. As the infected area on a stem
 enlarges, the stem is girdled and
 the portion of the plant above
 the girdled area is killed. Stem 
canker seriously affects soybeans in
 the northcentral region of the United States and has been reporte
d to cause heavy losses (Athow and Caldwell, 1954; and Dun
leavy, 1954, 1955). A desc
ription of the disease and the 
casual organism has been published by Welch and Gilman (1948) and Athow and Caldwell (19
54). Differences in varietal su
sceptibility have been reported by Hildebrand
 (1953a) and Beeson and Probst (1955). Proceedings of
 the Iowa Academy of Science 
© Copyright 1956 by th
e Iowa Academy of Science, Inc. D
unleavy, John M. "A Method for Determining Stem Canker Resistance in Soybean," Proceedings of the 
Iowa Academy of Science, 63(1), 274-279. Available at: https://scholarworks.uni.edu/pias/vol
63/iss1/22
The Little Robber Girl The Boy Who Cried Wolf AMERICAN INDIAN STORIES Animal Sketches And Stories B
londine Bonne Biche and Beau Minon BRER RABBIT and HIS
 NEIGHBORS CHINESE MOTHER-GOOSE RHYMES FABL
ES FOR CHILDREN FABLES FROM INDIA FATHER PLAYS AND MOTHER PLAYS FIRST STO
RIES FOR VERY LITTLE 
FOLK For Classes Ii. And Iii. Fo
r Classes Iv. And V. For Kindergarten
 And Class I. FUN FOR VERY LITTLE FOLK Good Little Henry 
JAPANESE AND OTHER ORIENTAL TALES] Jean De La Fontaine King Alexander's Adventu
res KINGS AND WARRIORS 
LAND AND WATER FAIRIES Lessons From Nature LITTLE STORIES that GROW BIG MODERN 
FAIRY TALES MOTHER GOOSE CONTINUED MOTHER GOOSE JINGLES MOTHER GOOSE SONGS AND ST
ORIES Myths And Legends NEGLECT THE FIRE ON POPULAR EDUCATION PLACES AND FAMILIES Poems Of Natur
e RESURRECTION DAY (EASTER) RHYMES CONCERNING "MOTHER" RIDING SONGS for FATHER
'S KNEE ROMANCES OF THE MIDDLE AGES SA
INT VALENTINE'S DAY Selections From The Bible SLEEPY-TIME
 SONGS AND STORIES Some Children's Poets Songs Of Life STORIES BY FAVORITE AMERICAN WRITERS STORIES
 FOR CHILDREN STORIES for LITTLE BOYS STORIES FROM BOTAN
Y STORIES FROM GREAT BRITAIN STORIES FROM IRELAND 
STORIES FROM PHYSICS STORIES FROM SCANDINAVIA STORIES FROM ZOOLOGY STO
RIES _for_ LITTLE GIRLS THE DAYS OF THE WEEK The King Of The G
olden River; Or, The Black Brothers The Little Grey Mouse THE OLD FAIRY TALES The Princes
s Rosette THE THREE HERMITS THE TWO OLD MEN UNCLES AND AUNTS AND OTHER RELATIV
ES VERSES ABOUT FAIRIES WHAT MEN LIVE BY WHERE LOVE IS, THERE GOD IS ALSO The Dragon's Tail from
 Fairy Tales From The Ge
rman Forests I wonder if the girls and boys who read these stories, have heard of the charming and 
romantic town of Eisenach? I suppose not, for it is a curious fact t
hat few English people visit the place, though very many Americans go th
ere. Americans are well known to have a special interest in old places with historical 
associations, because they have nothing of the sort in America; moreo
ver many of them are Germans by birth, and have heard stories of the Wartburg, that beautiful 
old castle, which from
 the summit of a hill, surrounded by woods, overlooks the town of The Wartburg is qua
intly built with dear little turrets and gables, and h
igh towers, a long curving wall with dark beams like the peasant cottages
, and windows looking out into the forest. It belong
s at present to the Grand duke of Sachsen-Weimar-Eisenach. Every stone and corner of the Wartburg
 is connected with some old story For instance there is the hall with the raise
d dais at one end and beautiful pillars supporting the roof where 
minnesingers of old times used to hold 
their great "musical festivals" a
s we should say nowadays. There was ke
en competition for the prizes that wer
e offered in reward for the best music 
and songs. In the castle are also the rooms of St Elizabeth, th
at sweet saint who was so good to the poor, and who suff
ered so terribly herself in parting from her husband and children. Then th
ere is the lion on the roof who could tell a fine tale if he chose; the great b
anqueting hall and the little chapel. On the top of the tower
 is a beautiful cross that is lit up at night by electric light and can be seen from a great 
distance in the country round. This is of course a modern addition.
 But the most interesting room in the castle is that where Dr Martin Luther spent his t
ime translating the Bible. A reward had been offered to anyone who should kill this arch-heret
ic; so his friends brought him disguised as a knight to the Wartburg, and very few people kne
w of his As you look through the latticed windows of that little room
, the exquisite blue and purple hills of the Thueringen-Wald st
retch away in the dista
nce, and no human habitation is to be seen. There too you may see the famous spot on the wall where 
Luther threw the inkpot at the dev
il. To be correct you can see the hole where th
e ink-stain used to be; for vis
itors have cut away every trace of the ink, and even portions of the old wooden bedstead. There i
s the writing-desk w
ith the translation of the Bible, and the remarkable footstool tha
t consisted of the bone of a mammoth. T
hose were the days in whi
ch a man risked his life for his faith; but they were the days also, we must remember, of 
witchcraft and magic. One other story of the Wartburg I must narrate in order
 to give you some idea of the interest that still surrounds the place, and influences the children 
who grow up there. It was in the days of the old Empe
ror The sister of the Emperor whose name
 was Jutta, was married to the Landgraf Ludwig of Thueringen, and they lived at th
e Wartburg. One day when Barbarossa came to visit them, he obse
rved that the castle had no outer
 walls round it, as was usual in those days. "What a pity," he said, "that such a fine castle shou
ld be unprotected by walls and rampar
ts, it ought to be more strongly fortified." "Oh," said Landgraf Ludwig, "
if that is all the castle needs, it can soon have them." "How soon?" said the Em
peror, mockingly. "In the s
pace of three days," answered his brother-in-law. "That could only 
be possible with the aid of the
 devil," said Barbarossa, "otherwise it could not be 
done." "Wait and see for yourself," said the Landgraf. On the third day of his visit, Ludwig said to
 the Emperor: "Would you care to see the walls? They are finished now.
" Barbarossa crossed himself several times, and prepared for
 some fearful manifestation of black magic; but what was his surprise to see a liv
ing wall round the castle of stout peasants and burghers, read
y armed, with weapons in their hands; the banners of well-known knights
 and lords waved their pennants in the wind where battlements should have been.
 The Emperor was much astonished, and called out: "Many thanks, brother-in-law, for 
your lesson; stronger walls I have never seen, nor better fitted together." "Rough stones they 
may some of them be," said the Landgraf, "yet I can rely on them, as you see." Now as 
you may imagine, the children wh
o grow up in this town, mus
t have their heads full of these tales, and many poets and artists have been inspired by the
 beauties of Eisenach. The natural surroundings of the town are 
so wonderful, that they also provide rich material for the Helmut was a
 boy who lived in Eisenach. He was eight years old, and went to a day school. He l
ived outside the town, not far from the entran
ce to the forest. He was a pale, fair-haired l
ittle boy, and did not look the tremendo
us hero he fancied himself in his dreams; not 
even when he buckled on helmet, breast-plate and sword, and marched out into the street to take 
his part in the warfare that went on constantly there, between the boys of this neighbourhood, and t
he boys who belonged to another part of the to
wn. Now the Dragon's Gorge is a most marvellous place; it is surrounded on all sid
es by thick forests, and you come on it suddenly when walking in the woods. It is a group of hug
e green rocks like cliffs that stand picturesquely piled close together, towering up to the sky. Th
ere is only a very narrow pathway between them. Helmut had often been th
ere with his father and mother or with other boys. After heavy rain or thawing snow it became im
passable; at the best of times it was advisable for a lady not to put on her Sunday hat, espe
cially if it were large 
and had feathers; for the rocks are constantly dripping with wa
ter. The great boulders are covered with green moss o
r tiny ferns; and in the spring time, wood sorrel grows on them in great patc
hes, the under side of the leaves
 tinged an exquisite violet or pink colour. The en
trance to the Dragon's Gorge 
is through these rocks; they narrow and almost meet overhea
d, obscuring the sky, till it seems as if one were
 walking under the sea. Two persons cannot walk side by side here. In som
e parts, indeed, one can only just squee
ze through; the way winds in and out in the most curious ma
nner; there are little side passages too, that you could hardly get
 into at all. In some places you can hear the water roaring under your feet; then the rocks end abru
ptly and you come out into the forest a
gain, and hear the birds singing 
and see the little brook dancing along by the side of the way. Alto
gether it is the most fascinating, wet and del
ightful walk that you could imagine. Helmut had lo
ng been planning an expedition to these rocks in company with othe
r boy friends, in order to slay the dragon. He dreamt of it day and ni
ght, until he brought home a bad mark for "attention" in his school report. He told his mot
her about it; she laughed and said he might leave the poor old fellow alo
ne; there were plenty of drag
ons to slay at home, self-will, disobedience, i
nattention, and so on! She made a momentary impression 
on the little boy, who always wanted to be good but found it difficult at times, curious to say, t
o carry out his He looked thoughtful and answered: "Of cour
se, mother, I know; but this time
 I want to slay a 'really and truly' dragon, may I? Will yo
u let me go with the other boys,
 it would be such fun?" The Drag
on's Gorge was not far off, an
d mother did not think that Helmut could do himself any
 harm, except by getting wet and dirty, and that he might do as well in
 the garden at home. "If you put on your
 old suit and your thick 
boots, I think you may go. Keep with the other boys and promise me not to get lost!" "Oh, I sa
y, won't it be fine fun! I'll run off and tell the other fellows. Hurrah
!" and Helmut ran off into the street. Soon four heads were to be seen c
lose together making plans for the next day. "We'll start quite early at six o'clock," they said, "a
nd take our second breakfast with us." (In Germany eleven o'clock lunch is called se
cond breakfast.) However it was seven o'clock a.m. b
efore the boys had had their first breakfast, and met out
side the house. How mother and father laughed to see the little fe
llows, all dressed in the most warlike costumes like miniatur
e soldiers, armed with guns and Mother was a little anxi
ous and hoped they would come to no harm; but she l
iked her boy to be independent, and knew how happy
 children are if left to play their pretence games alone. She
 watched the four set off at a swinging march down the street. Soon they had recru
its, for it was a holiday, and there
 were plenty of boys about. Helmut was commanding officer; the boys sho
uldered their guns, or presented arms as he directed. They passed the pond and followed the stre
am through the woods, until they came to the Dragon's Gorge, where the r
ocks rise up suddenly high and imposing l
ooking. Here they could only proceed in single file. Helmut headed the ba
nd feeling as courageo
us as in his dreams; his head swam with elation. Huge walls tower
ed above them; the rocks dropped water on their 
heads. As yet they had seen or heard 
nothing of the dragon. Yet 
as they held their breath to listen, they could hear somethin
g roaring under their feet. "Don't you tell me that that 
is only water," said Helmut, "A little brook can't make such a row as that--that's the dragon."
 The other boys laughed, they were sceptical as 
to the dragon, and were only pretending, whereas Helmut was in 
earnest. "I'm hungry," said one boy, "supposing we find a dry place 
and have our They came 
to where the path wound out again into the open air,
 and sat down on some st
ones, which could hardly be described as dry. Here they ate bread and sausage, o
ranges and bananas. "Give
 me the orange peel, you fellows. Mother hates us to throw it about; it 
makes the place so untidy." So saying Helm
ut pushed his orange peel right into a crevice of the rock and covered it with old leav
es. But the other boys
 laughed at him, and chucked theirs into the little stream, which m
ade Helmut very angry. "I won't be your officer any m
ore, if you do not do as I say," he said, and they began to qua
rrel. "We're not going to fight your old dragon, we're going home again to play football, that
 will be far better fun," said the boys who had joined as recruits, and the
y went off home, till only Helmut's chums were left. The
y were glad enough to get rid of the other boys. "We have m
ore chance of seeing the dragon without those stupid fellows," They finished their
 lunch, shouldered their guns again, and entered the second gorge, which is even m
ore picturesque and narrow than the first. Suddenly Helmut espied something ro
und, and slimy, and long lying on
 the path before him like a blind worm, but much thicker than blind worms generally
 are. He became fearfully excited, "Come along you fellows, hurry up," he said, "I do believe it i
s the dragon's tail!" They came up close behind him an
d looked over his shoulders; the gorge was so narrow here that they could not pass one anoth
er. "Good gracious!" they said, "whatever shall we d
o now?" They all felt frightened at the idea of a real dragon, but they stood to their 
guns like men, all but the youngest, Adolf, who wanted to run 
away home; but the others would not let h
im. "Helmut catch hold of it, quick now," whispered Werne
r and Wolf, the other two boys. Helmut stretched out his 
hand courageously; perhaps it was only a huge, 
blind worm after all; but as he tried to catch it, the thing s
lipped swiftly away. They all followed it, running as fast as they could through the
 narrow gorge, bumping themselves against the walls, scratchin
g themselves and tearing their clothes, but all the time
 Helmut never let that tail (if it was a tail) out of h
is sight. "If we had some salt to put on it," said he, "we might catch it like 
a "It would be a fine thing to present to a museum," said 
Wolf. Well, that thing led them a fine dance. It would stop short, and th
en when they thought they had got it, it started off again, until they were all
 puffing and blowing. "We've go
t to catch it someho
w," said Helmut, who thought the chase fine sport. At that moment the gorge
 opened out again into the woods, a
nd the tail gave them the sl
ip; for it disappeared in a crevice of the rock where there was no room for a boy to follow it. 
"It was a blind worm you see," said Werner. Presently, however, they heard a noi
se as of thunder, and looking down the path they saw a head gla
ring at them out of the rocks, undeniably a dragon's head, w
ith a huge jaw, red tongue, and r
ows of jagged teeth. The boys stared aghast: they were in for an adventure this time, and no mista
ke. Slowly the dragon raised himself out of the rocks, so that they s
aw his whole scaly length, like 
a huge crocodile. Then he began to 
move along the path a
way from them. He moved quite slowly now, so there was no difficult
y in keeping up with him; but h
is tail was so slimy and slippery that they could not keep hold of it; moreove
r it wriggled dreadfully whenever they tried to seize it. But Helmut had inherited the cool coura
ge of the Wartburg knights, and he was not going to be overcome by difficulties. With a wild I
ndian whoop he sprang on the dragon's back, and all the other boys followed his example, except li
ttle Adolf who was timid 
and began to set up a howl for his mother, I'm sorry to say. No sooner were th
e boys on his back t
han the dragon set off at a fine trot 
up and down the Dragon's Gorge, they had to hold on tight and to duck w
henever the rock projected overhead, or when they went sharply round a 
corner. "Hurrah," cried Helmut waving
 a flag, "this is better than a motor ride. Isn't he a
 jolly old fellow?" At this remark the jolly old fellow stopped dead and began to snort out fire a
nd smoke, that made the boys cough and choke. "Now stop that, will you!" said Helmut imperativ
ely, "or we shall have to slay you after all, that's what w
e came out for you know." He pointed his gun at the head of the dragon as he spoke like a 
real hero. The dragon began to tremble, and though they could only see his profile,
 they thought he turned pale. "Where's that ot
her little boy?" he asked in a hollow voice. "If you will give him
 to me for my dinner, I wi
ll spare you all." Helmut laughed scornfully, "Thanks, old fellow," he said
--"you're very kind, I'm sur
e Adolf would be much obliged to you. I expect he's run home to his mother long ago; he
's a bit of a funk, we sha
n't take him with us another time." "He looked so 
sweet and juicy and tender," said the dragon si
ghing, "I never get a child for dinner nowadays! Woe is me," he sniffed. "You are an old cannibal,"
 said the boys horrified, and mistaking the meani
ng of the word cannibal. "Hurry up now and give us another ride, it's fi
rst-rate fun this!" The drago
n groaned and seemed disincl
ined to stir, but the boys kicked him with th
eir heels, and there was nothing for it but to gee-up. After he had been up and down several 
times, and the boys' clothes were nearly torn to pieces, he s
uddenly turned into a great crevice in the rocks that led down into a dark passage, and t
he boys felt really frightened for the first time. Daylight has a wonderfully bracing effec
t on the nerves. In a moment, however, a few rays of sunshine penetrated the black darkness, and 
they saw that they were in a small cave. T
he next thing they experienced was that the dragon shook himself violently, and
 the small boys fell off his back like apples from a tree on to the wet a
nd sloppy floor. They picked themselves up again in a second, and there they saw the dragon b
efore them, panting after his exertions and filling the cavern with a poiso
nous-smelling smoke. Helmut and Wolf and W
erner stood near the cracks which did the d
uty of windows, and held their pistols pointe
d at him. Luckily he was too stupid to know that they were only toy guns, and 
when they fired them off crack-crack, they soon discovered that he wa
s in a terrible fright. "What have I done to you, young sirs?" he gaspe
d out. "What have I done to you, that you should want to shoot me? Yet shoot me! yes, de
stroy me if you will and end my miserable existence!" He began to groan until the cavern rever
berated with his cries. "What's the matter now, old chappie?" said Helmut, who, obse
rving the weakness of the enemy, had regained his courage. "I am an anachronism," said
 the dragon, "don't you know what that is?--well, I am one born out of my age. I am a survival of a
nything but the fittest.
 You are the masters now, you miserable floppy-looking 
race of mankind. You can shoot me, you can blow me up with dynamite, you can poison m
e, you can stuff me--Oh, oh--you can put me into a cage i
n the Zoological Gardens, you have fl
ying dragons in the sky who could drop on me suddenly and crush me. You have the pow
er. We great creatures of bygone ages have only been able to creep into the rocks a
nd caves to hide from your superior cleverness and your wily machinations. We mus
t perish while you go on like the brook for ever.
" So saying he began to shed great tears, th
at dropped on the floor splash, splash, like the water from the ro
cks. The boys felt embarrassed: this was 
not their idea of manly conduct, and considerably low
ered their opinion of dragons in general. "Do not betray me, young sirs," w
ent on the dragon in a pathetic and weepy voice, "I have managed so far to lie h
ere concealed though multitudes of people have p
assed this way and never perceived 
me." "I tell you what," said Helmut touched by the dragon's evident terror, "let's make friends 
with him, boys; he's given us a nice ride for nothing; we will present
 him with the flag of truce." Turning to the dragon he said: "Allow us
 to give you a banana and a roll in 
token of our friendship and esteem." "O,"
 said the dragon brighten
ing up, "I like bananas. People often throw the skins away here. I prefer them to orange peel.
 I live on such things, you must know, the cast-off r
efuse of humanity," he said, becoming tragic again. They present
ed him with the banana, and he ate it sk
in and all, it seemed to give him an appetite. He appeared to recover his spirits, and the bo
ys thought it would b
e better to look for the way out. T
he cavern seemed quite smooth and round, except for the cracks through which the daylig
ht came; they could not discover the passage by which they had entered. The dragon's ey
es were beginning to look bloodthirsty; rem
embrances of his former strength shot across his dulled brains. He could c
rush and eat these little boys after all and nob
ody would be the wiser. Little boys tasted nicer than bananas even. Meanwhile Wo
lf and Werner had stuck their flags through the h
oles in the rocks, so that they were visible from the outside. Now little Adolf
 had gone straight home, and had told awful ta
les of the games the others were up to, and he conducted the four mothers to the Drago
n's Gorge where they wandered up and down lo
oking for their boys. Adolf observed the flags sticking up on t
he rocks, and drew attention to them. The Dragon's Gorge resounded with the cries of "Helmut! Wolf
! The dragon heard the voices as well; his evil intentions 
died away; the chronic fear o
f discovery came upon him again. He grew paler and paler; clouds of smoke came from his nost
rils, until he became invis
ible. At the same moment Helmut groping against the wal
l that lay in shadow, found
 the opening of the passage through which 
they had come. Through this the th
ree boys now crawled, hardly
 daring to breathe, for fear of exciting
 the dragon again. Soon a gleam of light at the other end told of their deliverance. Their tende
r mothers fell on their necks, and scolded them at the same time. Truly, never did
 boys look dirtier or "We feel positively ashamed to go home with you," their mothers said t
o "Well, for once I was
 jolly glad you did co
me, mother," said Helmut. "That treacherous old dragon wanted to tu
rn on us after all; he might have devoured us, if you had not turned up
 in the nick of time. Not tha
t I believe that he really would have done anything of the sort, he was a coward you know, and when 
we levelled our guns at him he was awfully frightened. Still he mig
ht have found out that our guns were no
t properly loaded, and then it would have been unple
asant." Mother smiled, she did not seem to 
take the story quite so seriously as "We had
 a gorgeous ride on his back, mother dear; wou
ld you like to see hi
m? You have only to lie down flat and s
queeze yourself through that crack in the rocks till you come to his cave." "N
o thank you," said mother, "I t
hink I can do without seeing your "Oh, we have forgotten our flags!" called out
 Wolf and Werner, "wait a
 minute for us," and they climbed up over the rocks and rescued the flags
. "He's still in there," they whispered to Helmut in a mysterious "Mother," said H
elmut that evening when she came to wish him good nig
ht, "do you know, if you stand up to a dragon like a man, and are not af
raid of him, he is not so difficult to vanquish after all." "I'm glad you think so,
" said mother, "'Volo cum Deo'--there is a L
atin proverb for you; it 
means, that with God's help, will-power is the chief thing necessary; this even dragons 
know. Thus a little boy can conquer e
ven greater dragons than the monsters vast of ages past." "Hum!"
 said Helmut musingly, "mother, dear, I was a real hero to-day, I think you would ha
ve been proud of me; but I must confess between ourselves, 
that the old dragon was a bit of a fool!" Nex
t: The Easter Hare Previous: The Old King
The Imitation Game may have been v
irtually shut out of this
 year’s Oscars, winning only Best Adapted Sc
reenplay. But for many, the mere existence of The Imitation Game was far
 more important than any awards it might receive
. It was a recognition that gay people can not only contribute to society, but in the c
ase of Alan Turing, almost singlehandedly save
d 14 million British lives and shortened World War II for the Britis
h by at least two years. Turing, it will be recalled, was the
 mathematician who invented a machine that cracked the Nazi regime’s “unbreakable” c
oding device, Enigma, reports XBiz. But as the movie (and book which preceded it) points out,
 despite Turing’s brilliance, the fact that he was homosexual led him to be targe
ted by police, banned from furt
her government work, arrested and chemically castrated to dampen
 his “urges” — and he eventually comm
itted suicide in 1954 by drinking cyanide. A bit belatedly, the British gove
rnment issued an apology for its treatment of Turing in 2009, and
 Turing himself was eventual
ly pardoned by Queen Elizabeth II
 under what’s called the “Royal Prerogative of Mercy” — but what about the tens of thousands of oth
er gay men (and women) who were arrested and convicted of “gross inde
cency” (as gay sex w
as criminalised in those days)? Barnes, together with Nevile Hunt, 
Turing’s great nephew, and Thomas Barnes, his gr
eat-great nephew (pictured), delivered thei
r petition to the Prime Minister’s office at No. 10 Downing S
treet. The law was taken off the books in 2
003, and hadn’t been used for 36 years before that, but Turing’s great-nie
ce, Rachel Barnes, and her extended family estimate that more than 49,000 other Brits suffered t
he same discrimination and prosecution as Turing did — and they’ve
 collected over 600,000 names on a petition to urge the
 government to pardon
 those victims as we
ll. “Alan’s treatment by the government was abso
lutely horrific,” Barnes wrote in an article published yesterday on
 the Independent.co.uk website. “Having chosen the latter, both his me
ntal and physical health deteriorated. He ended up with severe depression and was una
ble to continue his work. In the end, he committed suicide, a
t the age of 41. “But Alan’s legacy still hasn’t been p
roperly fulfilled,” she continued. “He wasn’t the only gay man to receive such
 shocking treatment by the government. An estimated 49,000 other men were 
also charged with gross indecency, a
nd have never been pardoned by the government. And 15,000 of
 these men are still alive. If the Government believes in justice, then they m
ust receive the same pardon as Alan within their 
lifetimes. It would make such a huge difference to them and their
 families.” The organization YouGov polled Britains on the subject and found tha
t two out of three voters favored pardoning those who had been convicted of “gross
 indecency.” However, 21 percent — mostly conservatives and UKIP voters —
 opposed the move.
Use these engaging real-world scenarios to help infuse your mathematics program with a prob
lem-based approach to the knowle
dge and skills required by the Common Core
 State Standards for Mathematics. This collection 
of tasks addresses all of the Common Core State Standard categories for high school mathem
atics: - Number and Quantity - Statistics and Probability Each Problem-Based Task is set in
 a meaningful context to engage student interest and reinforce the relevance of mathemat
ics. Each is tightly aligned to one or more specific standards from the High School CCSS 
for Math III.
Brain swelling (brain oedema, intracranial pressure) Brain swelling is also known as ce
rebral oedema. It can be caused by an accident or trauma or some medic
al conditions. This pressure can preven
t blood from flowing to your brain, which deprives your brain of the oxygen it
 needs to function. Swelling can also block other fluids from leaving your brain, making the swell
ing even worse. Swelling in the brain can be life threatening. What
 causes brain swelling? Injury, infections, tumours, other health problems, and even high alti
tudes, any of these problems can cause brain swelling to occur. The following list explains differ
ent ways the brain can swell: - Traumatic brain injury (TBI): In TBI, also calle
d a head injury, a sudden event damages the brain. Both the physical c
ontact itself and the quick acceleration and deceleration of the head can cause
 the injury. The most common causes of TBI include fall
s, vehicle crashes, being hit with or crashing into an object, and 
assaults. The initial injury can cause brain tissue 
to swell. In addition, broken pieces of bone can rupture blood ves
sels in any part of the head
. The body's response to the injury may also increas
e swelling. Too much swelling may prevent fluids from leaving the brain. - Ischaemic stroke
s: Ischaemic stroke is the 
most common type of stroke and is caused by a blood
 clot or blockage in or near the brain. The brain is unable to receive the blood and oxygen it need
s to function. As a result, brain cells start to die. As the body responds, swelling oc
curs. - Brain (intracerebral) haemorrhages and strokes
: Haemorrhage refers to blood leaking from a blood vessel. Haemorrhagic strokes ar
e the most common type of brain haemorrhage. They occur when bloo
d vessels anywhere in
 the brain rupture. As blood leaks and the body responds, pressure 
builds inside the brain. High blood pressure
 is thought to be the most frequent cause of this kind of stroke. Ha
emorrhages in the brain can also be due to head injury, certain medicatio
ns, and unknown malformations present from birth.
 - Infections: Illne
ss caused by an infectious organism such as a virus or bac
terium can lead to brain 
swelling. Examples of these il
lnesses include: - Meningitis: Thi
s is an infection in which the covering of the brain becomes infla
med. It can be caused by bacteria, viruses, other organisms, an
d some medications. - Encephalitis: 
This is an infection in which the brain itself becomes
 inflamed. It is most often caused by a group of vir
uses and is often spread 
through insect bites. A similar condition is called encephalopathy, which can be due to Reye's synd
rome, for example. - Toxoplasmosis: This infection is caused by a parasit
e. Toxoplasmosis most often affects foetuses, young infants and people with
 damaged immune systems. - Subdural empyema: S
ubdural empyema refers to
 an area of the brain becoming abscessed or filled with pus, usually after another illness 
such as meningitis or a sinus infecti
on. The infection can spread quickly, causing 
swelling and blocking other fluid from leaving the brain. - Tumours: Growths in the brain
 can cause swelling in seve
ral ways. As a tumour develops, it can press against other areas of the brain. Tumours 
in some parts of the brain may block cerebrospinal fluid from flowing out of the brain. New blood ve
ssels growing in and near the 
tumour can also lead to swelling. - High altitude
s: Although researchers don't know the exact c
auses, brain swelling
 is more likely to occur at altitudes above 1,500 metres. This type of brain o
edema is usually associated with severe acute mountain sickness (AMS) or high-altit
ude cerebral oedema (HACE).
- New research links older people’s use of hearing aids with lower risks of dementia, depression
, anxiety, and dangerous falls - Hearing loss can lead to social isolation, which incr
eases the likelihood of developing cognitive d
ifficulties and mood disorders - Th
ere are hearing aids availabl
e that are almost invisible, and some devices are very reasonably priced How H
earing Aids Reduce Dementia and Anxiety As we grow older, we begi
n to experience subtle changes in our bodies. It’s not like one d
ay we don’t need glasses to read the new
spaper or a menu and the next
 we do. For most signs of aging, the changes are gradual. That’s why when it come
s to a gradual decline in our hearing, it may be
 easier to deny to ourselves 
that it has taken place. But it is im
portant to face reality in this case and do something about it because new research
 shows that using hearing aids can help us prevent other serious conditions that might a
rise in our senior years. The study, which took place at the University o
f Michigan in Ann Arbor, found that older people have a lower risk of developing dementia, depres
sion, anxiety, and injuries from falls when
 they begin wearing a hearing aid.1Mahmoudi, Elham; et al. “Can Hearing Aids De
lay Time to Diagnosis of Dementia, Depression, or Falls in Older Adults?” Journal o
f the American Geriatrics Society. 4 September 2019. Acces
sed 8 September 2019. https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1111/jgs.16109. T
hese results are based on a
n investigation that analyzed data from a Medicare HMO for 114,862 people 66 and olde
r from 2008 through 2016. 
This type of insurance differs from traditiona
l Medicare plans in that it partia
lly covers the cost of hearing aids. Each subject’s medical records were r
eviewed for one year before their hearing loss diagnosis and for three years afterward
 to ensure a focus on only new cases of dementia, depressi
on, anxiety, and fall injuries and to exclude any pre-e
xisting cases. In that three-year span after receiving their hearing l
oss diagnosis, the participants who had gotten hearing aids
 were shown to have an 18 percent lower risk of dementia, a 13 percent lower risk of injuri
es due to falls, and an 11 percent lower risk of depre
ssion or anxiety. Loss of Hearing Takes a Significant Toll Why would 
hearing loss potentially contribute to seemingly unrelated problems 
such as dementia, depression, and falls? In the case of dementia, many individuals who can’t 
hear properly often start becoming mor
e withdrawn and isolated. As the brain receives less stimulation from social connect
ivity, nerve impulses slow down and memory declines. As for depression and 
anxiety, once again it seems that the issue largely stems from 
the withdrawal from social settings 
that many older people with hea
ring loss impose on themselves. The more time they spend alone, the greater their depression 
and/or anxiety grows. A 2014 study at the National I
nstitutes of Health in Bethesda, Maryland found a link between hearing loss
 and higher rates of moderate to severe depressio
n.2Li, Chuan-Ming; et al. “Hearing
 Impairment Associated With Depression in US Adults, National H
ealth and Nutrition Examination Survey 2005-2010.” JAMA Otolaryngology-Head & Neck Surgery. A
pril 2014. Accessed 9 Septe
mber 2019. https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jamaotolary
ngology/fullarticle/1835392. And the
 risk of falls, too, increases with hearing loss because of t
he inner ear’s essential role in maintaining balance. But the problem is worsened by the 
fact that only 12 percent or so of older people actually get hearing aids when they are
 diagnosed with hearing loss. Preventing and Managing Hearing Loss By the age of 65, approximately 3
3 percent of Americans experience some level of hearing loss. If 
your hearing is still fully intact—and you kn
ow this through an audiological evaluation—that’s great, but you 
need to do what you can to saf
eguard it. One of the major causes of hearing loss is exposure to loud noi
ses and it can occur not only from expected sources like the high decibel levels at
 a concert, but also everyday situations like work (for example, in construction), listening 
to music too loudly through headphones, or even regularly walking arou
nd a city with heavy traffic. Buy yourself earplugs to preve
nt loud sounds all aroun
d you from doing damage to delicate nerve cells within the ears. If you have alread
y begun to experience hearing loss, it is not enough to get a diagnosis. Consider 
getting fitted for a hearing aid. There are a wide range of models available and many are very discr
eet. If your insuranc
e does not cover the cost and it is out of your price range
, look into an over-the-counte
r sound amplification device. These, although not as discreet, can be very effective and
 help prevent the dementia, mood disorders, and falls 
all associated with hearing loss. References [ + ] |1.||↑||Mahmoudi, Elham; et al. “Can Hearing
 Aids Delay Time to Diag
nosis of Dementia, Depression, or Falls in Older Adults?” Journal of t
he American Geriatrics Society. 4 September 201
9. Accessed 8 September 2019. https://onlinelibrar
y.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1111/jgs.16109.| |2.||↑||Li, Chuan-Ming; et al. “Hearing Impairment Associat
ed With Depression in US Adults, National Health a
nd Nutrition Examination S
urvey 2005-2010.” JAMA Otolaryngology-Head & Neck Surgery. Ap
ril 2014. Accessed 9
 September 2019. https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jamaotolaryngology/fullarticle/1835392.|
Consistent electricity is one of the major issues facing Ind
ia; in 2005 GMR Energy started developing a 330 megawatt hydroelectric dam and po
wer plant in Uttarakhand, just outside the town of Srinigar to help satisfy the growing dema
nd for power. Over time, concrete t
hat is not properly waterproofed can deteriorate and fail, whi
ch can result in devastating f
loods. The local town of Srinigar is all too familiar with the devastation of floods. 
In 1894, over 280 million cubic meters
 (10,000 million cubic feet) of water from the breached Gohn
a Lake completely swept 
away the original town of Srinigar. Due to the extreme risk potential in buildin
g and waterproofing the dam, the team at Alakanada brought Kry
ton on-board in 2010 to waterproo
f key areas of the dam. Kryton’s system
 can add decades to the life of concrete structures
 and unlike membrane systems that can deteriorate over time, the Kryton system becomes a pa
rt of the concrete mat
rix, waterproofing from the inside out. This give
s the system added reliability over others. Kryton is working with
 the on-site ready-mix pla
nt to optimize the mix desig
n. In addition, Kryton is helping the on-site cons
truction team to test and apply Kryton
’s surface-applied waterproofing system, 
Krystol T1 & T2 Waterpro
ofing System, and its internal system, Krystol Internal Membrane (KIM), to the dam f
ace, canal and two tunnels. Krystol T1 & T2 Waterpoofing System were applied t
o the upstream section of the dam face, which measures 128 m by 340 m
 (420 ft by 1100 ft). Going forward, the 1.8 km (1.12 mile) long canal leading t
o the pen stocks will be waterproofed entirely using KIM. Krystol T1 & T2 Waterproofing Syst
em will be applied to the two spillway tunnels that are each one kilometer (0.62 miles) long. 
In all, approximately 1 million kilograms (1,000 tonne
s) of Kryton’s waterproofing systems will
 be used to treat tens of thousands of square meters (hundreds of thousands of squar
e feet) of concrete and protect the dam and India’s electricity demands for y
ears to come.
Speed down a Hill Date: 4/17/96 at 10:43:27 Fr
om: Spring Lake Park H.S. Subject: physics How fast is
 an object going at the bottom of a 
14.9m hill, if it starts at the top going 3.0 m/s? Date: 4/18/96 at 19:32:8 
From: Doctor Ken Subject: Re: physics Hello! In order to do this problem, you have to a
ssume a few things: - you have to assu
me that friction isn't going to be much of a factor - similarly, w
ind resistance isn't going to play a big part. Also, here's a tip: Since they didn't 
say how steep the hill was, it probably doesn't make any difference, right? So you might as well use
 the easiest hill you know of, namely the h
ill that goes straight down (no hill at all). Does that make the problem 
easier for you? Remember, the 
downward acceleration due to gravity of any object on the Earth's surface is about 9.8 meters per
 second. Write back if you still need more help on this. -Doctor Ken, The Math For
um Search the Dr. Math Library: Ask Dr. MathT
M © 1994- The Math Forum at NCTM. All rights reserved.
Vanishing Third World Emigrants? NBER Working Paper No. 14785 This paper documents a stylized 
fact not well appreciated in the literatu
re. The Third World has been undergoing an emigration life cy
cle since the 1960s, and, except for Africa, emigratio
n rates have been level or even declining since a peak in the late 1980s and the early 1990
s. The current economic crisis will serve only to accelerate those trends.
 The paper estimates the economic and demographic fundamentals driving these Th
ird World emigration life cycles to the United States since 197
0 -- the income gap between the US and the sen
ding country, the education gap between the US and the sending country, the pover
ty trap, the size of the cohort at risk, and migrant stock dynamics. 
It then projects the life cycle up to 2024. The projections imply t
hat pressure on Third World emigration over the next two decades
 will not increase. It also suggests that future US immigrants will be more African 
and less Hispanic than in the past. Document Object Identifier (DOI):
 10.3386/w14785 Users who downloade
d this paper also downloaded these:
What is your definition of health? To you is
 it just your personal health or does it go beyond what happens in your body? How important
 is health to you? We’re h
ere to help you understand
 and grasp the definition of health in a way that sticks with you and promotes c
hange! What does health actually mean- accordin
g to the World Health Org
anization health is “the state of complete physical, mental and soci
al well-being and not merely the absence of disease or infirmity” (Businessdictiona
ry.com). Why should all three of those worlds of health should be a priority is where we come in to 
stress the importance. Let’s face it, we all define health
 differently and our c
omplete health falls on all different
 places of the spectrum of priorities. But, to make an 
impact on becoming healthier as a 
whole, there must be a general consensus on a basic understanding of health. Health
 is not limited to just our
 bodies, it is a multifaceted status and all 
have to be balanced to increase positiv
e growth. Because health is a combination of multiple areas of health, to make a difference as a
 healthier community, it has to start individually! A healthier YOU gets 
the ball rolling on a healthier community. Dedication, co
mmitment, and motivation: they all have to start somewhere so why not
 make it start with you? If you take on the c
hallenge to invest on your own (complete) health, you will begin influencing y
our family, which is another leve
l of important health status itself. Then, with your family on board, they will begin to influe
nce those around them every day too. See a pattern her
e? If we’re all infl
uencing each other to be healthier our largest world 
of health, in regards to scale, our community will be greater as well. Community health is
 the science of protecting and improving the health of co
mmunities through education, promotion of healthy lifestyles and
 research for disease and injury prevention. That is the boring text book definition 
right? At the end of the day 
it is simply saying community health is maintaining the good, overall health of the community
 in which you live in. To achieve a healthier community though, we have t
o start at the base… that’s you! You and your health a
re the key factors in building a healthier community. Within our coalition, Activat
e Buffalo County, we are trying to 
put that bug in everyone’s ear about being the healthiest version of you. If we can get
 you to put your whole world of health at the top of your priority list, others ou
tside our coalition will
 soon follow! In the end, we will reach a healthier commu
nity together! Need help getting started? Stay tuned and keep your eyes peeled for he
lpful tips about maintaining
 a healthy lifestyle!
day. Here in Britain we don’t directly see these Atlantic crests and troughs – we are set 
back from the Atlantic proper, separated from it by a few hundred miles of paddl
ing pool called the continental shelf. Each time one of th
e crests whooshes by in the Atlantic proper, it sends a crest up 
our paddling pool. Similarly each Atlantic trough sends a trough up the paddling pool. 
Consecutive crests and troughs are separated by six hou
rs. Or to be more precise, by six and a quarter h
ours, since the time between moon-rises is about 25, 
not 24 hours. The speed at which the crests and troughs trave
l varies with the depth of the paddling pool. The shallower the paddling pool gets, the slow
er the crests and troughs travel and the larger they
 get. Out in the ocean, the tides are just a foot or two in height. A
rriving in European estuarie
s, the tidal range is often as big as four metres. In the northern
 hemisphere, the Coriolis
 force (a force, associated with the rotation of the earth, that acts only on moving objects) m
akes all tidal crests and troughs tend to hug the right-hand bank as t
hey go. For example, the tides in the English channel
 are bigger on the French side. Si
milarly, the crests and troughs entering the North Sea around t
he Orkneys hug the Britis
h side, travelling do
wn to the Thames Estuary then turning 
left at the Netherlands to pay their
 respects to Denmark. Tidal energy is sometim
es called lunar energy, since it’s mainly thanks to the moon that the water 
sloshes around so. Much of the tidal energy, however, is really coming from
 the rotational energy of the spinning earth. The earth is very 
gradually slowing down. So, how can w
e put tidal energy to use, and how much power could When you think of tidal power,
 you might think of an ar
tificial pool next to the sea, with a water-wheel
 that is turned as the pool fills or empties (figures 14.2 and 14.3). Chapter G shows h
ow to estimate the power avail- able from such tide-pools. Assuming a range of 4
 m, a typical range in many European estuaries, the 
maximum power of an artificial tide-pool that’s filled rapidly at high tide a
nd emptied rapidly at low tide, generating power from both flow directio
ns, is about 3 W/m2. This is the same as the power per unit area of a
n offshore wind farm.
 And we already know how big offshore wind farms need to be to make a difference. They
 need to be country-sized. So similarly, to make tide-pools capable of producing powe
r comparable to Britain’s tot
al consumption, we’d need 
the total area of the tide-pools to be similar to the area of Britain. Amazingly, Britain is alre
ady supplied with a natural tide-pool of just the requ
ired dimensions. This tide-p
ool is known as the Nor
th Sea (figure 14.5). If we simply insert generators in appropriate 
spots, significant power can be extracted. The generators might look like 
underwater wind |2 m||1 W/m2| |4 m||3 W/m2| |6 m||7 W/m2| |8 m||13 W/m2|
A recent radio show broadcasted that research from the CDC stated that kids in A
merica are eating too much p
izza, which is not a healthy food. I was a bit puzzled
, so I wanted to get a little more information on 
the actual research. The CDC report is actually on sodium intakes in children and ado
lescents in the US. Like adults, children and adolescents are consum
ing more sodium than they need. And even in children, this can lead to increased blood pressure
. Why do we care? First, we don’t want to start kids off with health problems, like high bloo
d pressure. This will only increase the likelihood of these problems as adults. Sec
ond, sodium intake is a taste preference. As children are developing their 
tastes and dietary preferences, we want to give them a healthy palate. Reducing intake when young wi
ll hopefully help prevent them from 
over consuming as adults. So where does pizza com
e in? Pizza is the number one contributor of sodium 
to children and adolescent diets. Bread, poultry, cold cuts, and sandwiches round ou
t the top five. Noticably, these are foods that naturally have high sodium. 
This isn’t about tea
ching kids to not salt their f
ood. It is about teaching them to watch their consumption of foods natur
ally high in sodium. So can
 your kid eat pizza? Of co
urse! But, beware of the amount of cheese and cured meats on your toppings. Stick for 
less cheese, fresh cooked meats, veggies, and h
omemade sauce if possible. All of these allow you greater control of the sodium going in.
 Here are a couple of my favorites for pizza: What are your fav
orite adaptations to make pizza more
 healthy? Share them in the comments!
1031 The Church gives the name Purgatory to this final purification of the elect, which is e
ntirely different from the punishment of th
e damned. The Church formulated her doctrine of faith on Purgatory especially at th
e Councils of Florence and Trent. The tradition of the Chur
ch, by reference to certain texts of Scripture, speaks of a cleansing fire: - As for certain l
esser faults, we must believe that, before the Final Judgment, there is a purifying fi
re. He who is truth says that whoever utters blasphemy against the Holy Spirit will be
 pardoned neither in this age n
or in the age to come. From this sentenc
e we understand that certain offenses can be forgiven in this
 age, but certain others in th
e age to come.
The Longan is a tropical tree native to southern China.
